returns you're forced to use American
software so this is extraordinary the
extent to which the British state has
has adopted um American software without
question and we've had opportunities to
make a different choice I mean there was
a company and I Illustrated in the book
there was a company in Manchester that
was offering cloud services and that
could have been a competitor a local
competitor to AWS and and to Microsoft's
aure um and the government made the
decision short-term decision uh to go
for the cheapest supplier with the
biggest capacity and then that Local
Company went out of business and what
government was this what year was this
well it's actually been that was 15
years ago probably 18 now and uh but so
that was as it happens that was a labor
government but it's been consistent
between between political parties and in
a way that's that's the big we're we're
currently in an general election period
and that's the Striking thing that
neither of the the main parties in fact
none of the parties are highlighting
this as an issue and nobody's saying oh
we'll reduce the amount of foreign
ownership or we'll do something about
promoting British Enterprise or we'll
change the tax system to make it more
attractive for entrepreneurs to hold on
to their businesses rather than to sell
out well to the contrary you had this
ridiculous story I think only the Ft
talked about it because it was comments
made to the Ft I think only the
telegraph covered it in addition to the
Ft of Jeremy Hunt saying that the UK can
have a trillion dooll company homegrown
grows through UK Capital markets which
for people watching they might think
okay trillions a lot of money but maybe
Europe's most valuable companies around
half a trillion I think right now um
it's race between lvmh and and noro
Nordisk these these weight loss drug
people but also I think the footsie
itself is worth about two two trillion
so 50% of the footsy through one company
so if anything rather than actually
addressing some of the points in the
book which we'll get on to the default
is still very much denial that this is
an issue absolutely I mean that's a
fantasy on Jeremy Hunt's part um the uh
to get a company of that size in the UK
with current government policies is so
unlikely to happen um I mean you talked
about the scale of some of these bigger
companies I mean if you take the footsy
100 and add to it the next 250 biggest
quoted companies so the footsy 350 that
is smaller now all added together
including our shell and BP and black and
everything um that's smaller now than
just Microsoft it's also smaller than
Apple separately and it's um the footsy
100 is now smaller than Nvidia uh a US
chip company that most people haven't
heard of but that indic indicates how
what a tiny what a tiny player we've
become so Jeremy Hunt's Ambitions to
have a trillion pound company or
trillion dollar company for that matter
are really fantasy and they're not
consistent with his policies
um on tax and Innovation we'll get onto
the policies in a minute but you know I
just about remember sort of the economy
of the 2000s you know for a brief moment
I think vone was more valuable than um
Intel you know its market capitalization
was higher than Intel and you you could
look at these stats and say 2006 2007
which was really the high Watermark of
of that UK services-based Southeast
England model and you know the top 20
biggest companies in the world of course
BP shell RBS HS BC and you know the UK
was a really major economic player but
actually today I think I I looked
yesterday even France has three
companies by market capitalization
bigger than any UK firm and that I don't
think really registers in the
conversation in this country they the
political class sort of seemed to think
we're still operating 20 years ago yes
the political class don't want to think
about numbers as we know we're run by
Arts graduates and um and numbers
actually it turns out rather matter and
and Britain has shrunk its place in the
world has shrunk but it's not just
shrunk in relation to everyone it's it's
been very much taken over by by by the
US I mean to give an illustration of
that the US has a lot of foreign
investments around the world but on my
calculations about 30% almost a third of
those Investments of the us all around
the world about 30% are in the UK it's
hugely focused on the UK and it's and
that's because we've welcomed them so
much and they've done very well here of
course we repres a bridge head to Europe
but we also represent in ourselves an
important profit Center for many big us
corporations so a Tory Minister watching
this would be saying fantastic that's
great news your your point is that
actually there's there's an exploitative
nature to that absolutely I mean many
Americans listening to it would say this
is a great success story and of course
many many Tory ministers would and
culturally they are very um not just
Tori but labor ministers have been very
close to the Americans I did a a quick
study of prime ministers and chancellors
and found out that almost all of them
without exception uh in fact without
exception over the last 20 years have
either worked for American companies
before they came into office or after
they left office I'm including there
doing speaking tours for American
companies um but yeah you're right some
some politicians would say this is a
success story but I think they're wrong
I think they're fundamentally wrong when
you when you're sending about a hundred
billion dollars of profits back to
America every year inevitably it leads
to the impoverishment of the country and
we can see that because we if we look at
the average income per household it's
now about the same as Mississippi the
poorest of the US states and notoriously
poor so we we have become impoverished
by it but also our taxes are partly
higher higher partly as a result of this
because if the American corporations are
paying very little tax we individuals
have to pay more so it's meant that
we're poorer we're paying higher taxes
but it's done other things too it's it's
reduced our community one thing I came
across in in this study was how much um
many towns depend on a key employer and
we've lost that in cities like
Birmingham in bourneville um and many in
Street in Somerset with Clark's Shoes
going but many cities and towns we've
lost our what you might call Hometown
Advantage the advantage of having a
local employer maybe with the owners
living there as well but where they'll
create apprenticeships and they'll pay
for Community Resources and Leisure
centers and so on we've lost that by
contrast you see that all across America
that towns are expanding and have done
very well on the basis of this Hometown
Advantage uh and great if you've got a a
company like Dow Chemical uh in Midland
um where they've got they've got not
only is the company very profitable and
been generous towards the local
community but the owner ERS of the
business the Dal family have been giving
giving lots of resources to the city so
we've lost that so but it's not just
that we lose people I think I'd say to
your Tory Minister I'd say what do you
say about the Y the capable young people
who go out to the States because they're
offered more attractive jobs you can't
blame them but what it means is the more
powerful country can pick and choose to
some extent who it takes in Academia and
in science but we also lose treasure I
mean the amount of artworks going across
the Atlantic each year is about four
billion pounds worth that's Works often
four billion four billion yeah often
going to the Getty museum or other
American institutions I mean that's the
