buying from us companies all those
things meant that it's unlikely that a a
British AI company can can succeed and
prosper in the General market for there
are some good British AI companies in in
in certain niches but at the moment as
things stand if they're successful they
will be bought up um by Google and
Facebook and others final question is
this all the legacy of Margaret
Thatcher she changed the political dial
in this country in a certain direction
and trying to embrace a more American
Star capitalism I think it's one of
those things isn't it that any any
discussion of British economy always
ends up with with concluding that it was
thater that got us off to the wrong on
the wrong foot I think she did she did
have a very strong relationship with
Reagan and with the Americans and she
was very admiring of American capitalism
but I think we've gone to a different
scale I think she would be horrified by
the um by the situation we're in now she
was quite analytical and she would have
seen the extent to which the Americans H
have um have taken over so in in her
when she was in power 3% of the US Stock
Market was owned by Americans it's now
30% so even when we talk of a British
company we're really at best talking of
a 70% owned British company although
with other in foreign institutions it's
likely to be a 50% British company so I
think she she would have been horrified
by that but I mean there were examples
yes when when when uh she fell out with
Michael hlin over um the Takeover of
Western helicopters it was it was she
was supporting the Takeover by Sikorski
the American company that bought it in
the end so yeah it wasn't it wasn't just
a general opening up of capital markets
and welcom with the American model there
were specific government policy
decisions which she made to support
American cap specific American companies
so I think you're probably right I think
it did it did start with with a lot of
it started with Thatcher um but again
she was before the internet age gave it
a a completely different uh different
dimension and obviously well before the
AI age which as you say will we we we'll
move things further on but I mean
perhaps I can ask you do you think your
dream in your book of AI and other
Technologies um creating more Leisure
Time um is going to mean that we won't
worry so much about the American
domination well no it's it's something
that you know in that book I couldn't
really go into obviously geopolitics and
and the relationships between states
which is arguably a state of Anarchy
right it's different to um I think
humans are inherently Cooperative but
the evidence of the last several hundred
years is that not nation states are not
inherently Cooperative with other nation
states so that is something that you
know it troubled me in the book and I
I quite overtly say I think in the final
two chapters that really the path from
one to the other because I do think that
you know that Economist headline from a
few years ago what happens when labor
becomes Capital we're going to get there
we're going to see the plummeting um
price of human labor because
increasingly uniquely human capabilities
will disappear I think I think the
bridge from one form of political
economy to another is going to be
something which looks like a radical
form of social democracy and so when
you're talking about for instance
certain kinds of bank that can Finance
corera business or a different kind of
British capitalism I think in the short
over the next 20 25 years yes certainly
I don't you know I don't I don't see
that as and I know that some people
watching or listening might really
strongly disagree I I don't disagree
with that at all I the trends I talk
about in that book are really over a
century I mean who knows right um so
there's still a place for markets
there's still a place for private firms
in the short term I just don't want
those anywhere near um things are
fundamental you know importance to human
beings which would be the universal
basic Services if you want to be a
private Enterprise and make money you
know make make phones I don't want you
anywhere near the water system it's low
margins anyway it's quite hard to
administer I certainly don't want
private Equity there so
I I I I I I think this analysis can fit
in with that perfectly well and it's
interesting you said that about thater
if she saw this she'd be a gas because I
think she would be that's what's
fascinating to me now with with
contemporary British conservatives is
that they've they helped create a model
a political economy over the last 40
years which they don't
like yes they've encouraged to be
they've encouraged us to model ourselves
on the Americans and instead of just
modeling ourselves on The Americans
we've created a system that's welcomed
the Americans in um so so much of so
much of so many of the decisions on
regulation and everything else are made
in New York and Washington um and in
California um one of the extraordinary
things is just the sheer success of
California in in in in dominating not
just online businesses but all sorts of
all sorts of reprodu businesses where
where you can get scale by using the
internet and um yeah I think I think she
would be she would have been she that
model wasn't in her in her vision at
that time in fact wasn't in anyone's
Vision until about 2000 yeah this has
been such a great conversation I really
enjoyed it Angus thanks Aron vassel
State how America runs Britain uh I
don't think it's a very leftwing book
but I think you might have some leftwing
conclusions uh maybe you don't like me
saying that uh this has been a real
pleasure thank you so much thank you
thank you it's been a great pleasure
