book James bloodworth's book which is an
excellent analysis of how in the real
world American capitalism works for Uber
drivers and for Amazon workers and
because he went under underr for six
months with each of each of four very
loway jobs to experience what it was
like and what he says is that um it it's
all right as long as it's all right but
then if you get an injury there's no one
there to support you and I think the
British model after the war and and
right through the 60s and into the 70s
the British model was and still should
be that we're there to support each
other and that we don't want to have
people who are who are made destitute
because things don't work out for them
so effectively a Social Democratic model
is what you're talking about here
certainly something less brutal than
than than we've got with with with the
workers in in in many of these companies
so when when labor in the last election
talked about the national Investment
Bank and also Regional investment Banks
is that a policy that you think okay if
we're trying to build an ecology a bit
like Germany that's something we should
try well it depends how it depends how
those would work there there's been
constant talk of new Banks uh and for
and then they're typically not funded by
pe very well and not funded not run by
people who've got a Clear Vision of what
they're trying to do um but yeah Finance
is important and I think um we we we
probably should have uh banks that
support certain sorts of Enterprise that
are socially desirable um what you've
got at the moment is Banks who are
motivated to support uh business
businesses that are that they're not
worried about what the business does
they're aoral in a sense um so they're
they're motivated to support customers
who defin who have a lot of collateral
and and can make the interest payments
well that's natural for a banker but so
yeah I think we should have a a better
banking system for for Enterprise well
particularly for co-ops right I mean
co-ops often are very they can compete
perfectly well with private firms the
problem is during a crisis they they
struggle to access Finance during during
an economic downturn because of course I
mean I'll spell it out if you're a large
bank and somebody says firm says I need
500,000 or 10 firms say we need 50,000
the 500,000 is a is a better bet um if
it's a good customer obviously so that's
I mean something when I was writing my
book I found really fascinating that
access to credit during a crisis is the
real pinch point for cops historically
but actually crises are at the heart of
capitalism yes I mean it's a sort of
punctuated equilibrium sort of issue
that it's not just about what happens
you know when things are running
smoothly it it is very much as you say
about what happens in the crisis and my
my reading of it is that with private
equity in particular this is a kind of a
mechanized industry of of people who are
looking for a crisis they're not looking
for a crisis in the economy or their own
they're looking for a crisis in a
particular industry when that happens
they're they're ready ready to take over
at rock bottom prices and um so so we're
we're talking about the constant churn
of businesses and we we've now got this
group of um people who some some people
have described as being like vultures
but I mean they're business people but
they're they're looking for opportunity
and so so if you're a private company
and you're you're in trouble you may get
taken over but at a very low price have
you read Brett Christopher on Asset
Management I think you'd really like it
um well yeah asset management and uh and
wealth management and another book as
well when I'm reading this and I'm
thinking it it's good for our audience
you can go on and watch us on YouTube
it's techn feudalism by yans far fakis
fam with that yes very much yeah and I
thought I actually thought reading this
I thought this Brett Christophers and
Janis it's kind of all it's a similar
story you're all you're all sort of
telling um on the techn feudalism point
and again you you you talk about all the
different firms from you know oh just
everything it's crazy
um that we depend on with the us and
then you go on to payment services Apple
pay Visa Mastercard obviously Google pay
I mean I when I when I swiped in coming
from London watero to Bermane I use
Apple pay and obviously a tiny fragment
of that payment goes across the Atlantic
yeah not necessarily that tiny yeah what
what's happened is we the the US payment
companies have killed cash they wanted
it to die we're now at a point where for
of our transactions in the High Street
14% so only one in seven are done with
cash and many shops and Industry
businesses refuse to take refuse to take
cash um that but it's not what consumers
often think is oh well this is happening
all over the world it's not in Germany
58% of transactions are with cash
they've chosen cash because it's um very
cheap much cheaper for the shopkeeper
it's very easy to to handle it has some
other advantages too you're more aware
of what you spent if you use cash
whereas as they say the the credit card
anesthetizes the pain of spending um and
so that's of course very good for the
credit card companies but there's
another thing about cash if you're
thinking of normal ordinary people that
cash allows you to to budget and many
people still use cash and jam jars to
work out their to work out their budget
and why shouldn't they it's a good way
to do it but it's it's a bit pointless
if you worked out your budget you've got
your cash to spend on something you
can't use it um so the the credit card
companies took the view that cash wasn't
doing them any good whereas in credit
card payments they're always getting
something it's not just the the front
companies as well it's the the
processing companies that are
American-owned companies like World pay
um which pops up on the screen when You'
when you've touched it with your phone
or with your card um so yeah they've
that this is another example of sort of
almost where we started of bridges and
pipes it's a it's a it's something it's
a pipe you have to go through to make
your payment and they're taking a
royalty on on the way it's incredible
really because we spoke to a guy called
Brett Scott he talked about cashless and
you know he he said you have to at least
keep a certain amount of your money
monetary infrastructure should be
physical cash has to be and he he sets
you know sets out the reasons why and so
far the people defending cash have been
people like Nigel farage who are you
know the sort
of the uh the tribunes of the petty
bouris in this country and it's really
interesting if you look at a
sociological difference if you go I live
in Portsmouth if you go and hang out if
I hang out with the partner of my um
sister-in-law W of cash he's a Tradesman
right um carpet Fitters Builders cash
cash cash if you were with a young if
I'm with my colleagues here at nvar
media London graduates it's all cashless
it's a really notable sociological
divide between the petty Bourgeois and
you might say graduate of the future or
graduate class
and politically actually I had never
thought about it again until reading the
book The Big takeway actually is if
we're looking at this through the prism
of us Imperial
relations you absolutely want to keep
cash you absolutely want it or if you're
going to have a cashless system it
should be publicly owned it should be
based in the UK yes exactly we could
have our own credit card system um we
did we did do we had a a company called
access and we quietly allowed it to be
