nature of a successful Empire isn't it
that they have they have they have a lot
of wealthy individuals a lot of wealthy
companies and they want to have they
want treasure and if they're free
they're free to buy it and they buy it
from Europe and particularly from
Britain the point about art is
fascinating to me I didn't know it was
44 billion pounds a year in the book you
talk about the example one my favorite
artists Joseph Wright of Derby amazing
you know you you
see just what it must have been like the
sort of early Decades of the Industrial
Revolution and you talk about a painting
that was sold um across the Atlantic I
think three and a half million pounds
Joseph right Derby two boys with a
bladder whatever I call it yes he's very
famous for the the belile one if people
are wondering who the hell is Aaron
talking about they are Sensational
paintings and it really got me thinking
that on the one hand we talk about
returning the path and marbles back to
Greece which I support quite right but
it's interesting at the very moment
we're refusing to you know send that
stuff over there we're also sending in a
really important Heritage of this
country Industrial Revolution we're
sending that across the Atlantic yes
we're repatriating treasure at the same
time as being
plundered yeah it it's a it's a paradox
and very little noticed or commented on
I mean the best that the British
government have done is they've said
well we'll have a period of pause when
something wants to be when someone wants
to export a work of art they must put it
put a notice out to the museums to say
would you like to buy it well that's all
very well um in a world where we we had
enough money to do so but again and
again British M the British museums
British museum itself and other museums
in Britain say actually we can't afford
it we spent our budget for Acquisitions
this year um or or we're in
a divesting mode I mean it seems like a
fair trade to me give the pathon marbles
back give the Ben and bronzes back and
we'll get Joseph R Derby I quite like
that but anyway um yeah that was a that
was a real a real shock to me that four
billion figure and like you say you use
the words there an Empire and often and
it's very important to say you you you
use the words um this is a book about
business not politics it's mostly about
business and it's very much Pro British
rather than anti-American I'm not
anti-American in it but I think the the
business spills over to the politics you
a in many important ways it's it's the
Americans don't just have a business
interest to Brad they have business
interest that they support and in the
last few years the number of people for
example in the American Embassy has gone
up by 50% they're not diplomats they're
not concentrating on um some of them are
but that the extra ones aren't
concentrating on more more diplomatic
activity they're concentrating on
supporting their businesses and there
are many situations where there are
questions about
regulations where the American
government Lobby very heavily in favor
of of us companies um and of course they
want to they want to retain control
um our
um Elon Musk says that Twitter is Our
Town Square which was a reasonable
description of it our town square is in
that case is controlled from California
but that's true of Facebook meta as well
um so we've allowed and I think that
relates to politics too because these
are places where our political
discussions take place but I mean
fundamentally if we want to make a
political decision that the Americans
don't agree with we will hear about it
and it will change um of it's behind
closed doors but there was a case a few
years ago with under Boris Johnson with
WWE where the Americans didn't want us
to have Huawei kit in our telecom's
equipment and they said so and we said
oh well we'll look at it and the British
government consulted the experts in the
intelligence community and the experts
said no it's fine there one or two
places where we shouldn't have it but
it's fine in telecom's towers and the
Americans oh no it's not and there's a
huge public spat um where Donald Trump
said you you better not have it or
there'll be no trade deal by the way
there still isn't a trade deal um and
the British the British said well okay
then and they climb down so most of the
time our interests are aligned enough
that you don't get this this sort of
dispute but if we step out of line the
Americans will make sure that we conform
with what they think is important and
we're having a debate right now about um
nuclear uh not nuclear power that's
that's the Chinese and the French but
you know nuclear submarines or more
specifically Trident missiles which of
course are um manufactured and serviced
in the United States yes and so when
people talk about Trident independent
nuclear
deterrent we can you know some people
would say it's not a deterrent we don't
have to go there today it's very
questionable whether or not it's
independent uh because if you have
something which is being serviced in a
foreign country it strikes me that's
that's arguably not the case in the
political debate I've not heard it
called independent for some some years
now I think the reality is that
government and civil Serv officers civil
servants are stopping using that
expression because we know they know
that that's a that's a sham that it it
it there's no
situation politically or technically
where it could be used independently of
the Americans well technically is the
one I find interesting right I mean
politically that's fine because you're
in a well I don't think it's fine but
you're in a political Alliance you have
collective security I I sort of grasp
that but technically is the one I find
fascinating because I I haven't got
especially strong views on nuclear
weapons I think we should have fewer
countries should have them I think we
should ideally have a world without
nuclear weapons but I understand the
arguments about why would you want to
get rid of them when you're allowing
Iran to have them etc etc I think
wealthier countri should have as few as
possible I think that's a sensible way
to go what I find fascinating is that
there aren't center right politicians in
this country saying we want nuclear
weapons but it should be a homegrown
version like the French that's what I
find fascinating and I think sometimes
the argument of for or against misses
that broader Point actually because you
care so much about this you're saying
the literal defense of the realm is
impossible without this technology and
yet we depend on it from elsewhere yes
we've got some some very weird thinking
going on in government when it comes to
our relations with with the us and one
of the things is we we say oh we
wouldn't allow um I don't know say the
telegraph to be taken over by a foreign
owner but it depends what you mean by
Foreign if it's from the Middle East no
definitely not if it's from America well
maybe they're not so foreign after all
but um for me foreign is foreign um and
uh the British ought to and should be
able to control their own destiny and
their own assets well I mean Rupert
Murdoch at News International he is a he
is a US citizen he is and he's um
effectively sold Sky TV so that's Now
American again many people think of it
what we find is that when when
corporations are taken over by Americans
they often don't Rebrand as American
they allow people consciously they allow
