book about tech firms and this is
another one that you know it's another
Touchstone of modern politics all the
politicians love to say we're Innovative
we're new we're you know technologically
um in
again going back to Jeremy Hunt he said
that that trillion dollar company would
of course be a tech a Tech Giant and you
say the footy 100 when it was launched
in 1984 had more Tech firms than it does
today just to be clear the footy 100 is
the 100 most valuable listed companies
in the
UK that's a remarkable statistics how
did you work that out and what are you
what are you classifying there as a
technology company well it's interesting
because if you look at the very few tech
companies we've got left um they aren't
really tech companies so I think
probably right move and auto trader are
the only two and really they're they're
using Tech but really they marketplaces
aren't they and um so in terms of pure
tech companies um we've probably got the
accounting firm in Newcastle um that's
about it really um so we basically lost
them all um but in many cases I mean
deep deep mind was classic case which is
a very promising tech company which
Google took over very cheaply as it
turns out but I'm sure Google knew it
was a bargain at the time um so we've
we've allowed these takeovers to happen
um in fact we've even encouraged them
friend of mine had a tech company which
he he sold and he said to me by selling
it now I got my um my entrepreneurs
relief allowance I'll pay maximum of 10%
tax if I carry on trading I'll pay 40%
or more tax on the trading profits so it
pays me to sell so we've set up a tax
system we on entrepreneurs want to sell
but we could find other ways of
encouraging people who build up
businesses to hold on to them that's
what the Germans have done with their
midat so they've got a lot of companies
very often specialized in a particular
Niche very often exporters very often
set up soon after the war family
businesses but with a kind of commu
extended family and Community around
them and they they wouldn't sell even
for a profit because it'd be socially
unacceptable they're they they're
embedded in their Community they provide
jobs um they wouldn't be able to face
their Community if they turned around
and said we sold out to a foreigner so
there's it's not just about the tax it's
also about the um the culture culture of
keeping hold of your companies and
building them up owning companies to
grow them rather than um to sell them in
fact it's one rather depressing thing
about about um British business advice
these days they always talk about what's
your exit strategy and anyone who's been
in a business discussion will will have
been involved in these discussions well
maybe there isn't an exit strategy maybe
it's a stay in the room strategy maybe
it's a grow the room strategy so it's um
there's a cultural issue as well as as
well as a tax issue so you say culture
that's fascinating because maybe you
don't know Angus I'm a Marxist okay
don't hold it against me and you know KL
Marx would say that capital um capital
is money which makes money it's value
and emotion and you're always seeking a
higher rate of return you're in compet
ition with other the capitalists and
that the the asset management private
Equity model globalized core periphery
relations with the US and the rest of
the world you can map all of that onto
that sort of marxist framework it makes
perfect sense there's a higher rate of
return by boots being bought by these
people um and effectively you you buy
low or and you sell high or you reduce
your cost you keep on to it you move
your tax base do all these things that
can all be
explained through marks essentially
saying that's how business operates
then you're making you say the cultural
argument and this is empirically what
happens right in Germany France Italy
there are very large family-owned
companies that wouldn't do this and they
sort of fly in the face of that Ultra
capitalist argument of maximizing
revenues shareholder returns blah blah
blah so what would be your sort of
political response then because I've
given the critique if that's that is the
direction of a purely capitalist Society
we we don't you never really live in a
purely capitalist Society sorry to to
bore you but you know when Marx writes
Capital it's called Capital critique of
political economy he's criticizing ideas
of political economy rather than the
actual existing economy but it's an
abstract set of values that we seem to
be moving further towards in the
anglo-american countries and it's a
slightly less developed set of things in
a set of relations rather in in
Continental Europe so so what are you
saying we should be more like
Continental Europe you say it's a
cultural thing how does that work that
that would have to be necessarily sort
of like nationalist I suppose or what
Social Democratic or
not necessarily I mean there are lots of
things we could do to tweak our to tweak
our business rules to get closer to
having family or locally owned or even
cooperatively owned businesses um but
we've actually moved them the other way
so one of the things that large
businesses have is advantages of scale
well we can count that can be counted in
various ways um but a big advantage that
they have is the advantage of this
borrowing using other people's capital
and um that has the advantage for them
that they can uh they can take over
bigger targets um but it also has the
advantage that interest payments on that
Capital are tax deductible so one of the
things that private Equity does is it
typically borrows so much that it
doesn't that it doesn't actually need to
pay tax in the short term um and very
often when they sell out they've got
mechanisms to be able to do that very
what they call tax efficiently or what
you would probably say tax avoiding um
so so we we can tweak the rules to move
nearer nearer to your model I don't
think we I don't think these changes
will create a Marxist uh way of working
but it will be it will be less
capitalist um I think in a way what
Britain needs to do is develop its own
form of capitalism um closer to the
European model rather than adopting the
US model Lock Stock and Barrel um and
also by adopting the American model as
we've done we've made ourselves very
open
to the to this this wave of takeovers
the book The book's called vessel state
so I suppose if you're trying to
condense it down then by adopting that
us variant of capitalism we have
effectively made ourselves open to
predatory takeover by us business I
think we're a vassel state in in in in
that way yes that we've made ourselves
more open but I mean a vassel state a
vassel is someone who works at the
direction of someone else and I think
the the British largely do and I think a
vassel is someone who works in order to
enrich someone else and I think in that
sense the British do but there's another
there's another meaning of vassel within
the British economy that we've created a
sort of vassel Class A group of people
who work um really very much at the
margin uh they can't afford to get ill
um I'm thinking of people like Amazon
workers um and it's not a particular
criticism of the way Amazon does
something it's a criticism of the the
whole system of having um employees who
are working at the minimum wage having
to get having to live in places where
it's expensive to live having to get to
work without costs not having adequate
insurance cover um for for when things
don't go right so I mentioned in the
