over taken over by MasterCard there
could have been a a strategy by
government to say this is a a strategic
asset we want to have a national
nationally based credit card and when
was that taken over oh that was a while
ago I can't remember access but maybe
I'm just sort of maybe that's in my like
you know 25 or 30 years ago okay
probably not then but but they they they
could have they could have ch chosen not
to do it um but there is no drive
towards protecting National Assets in
that way um it's just there seems to be
just a big hole in our policymaking well
you had that that funny scenario a few
months ago of niga frage being debanked
and then him saying I I want a bank of
Last Resort and it should be publicly
owned it should be the post off the post
office used to be publicly owned and
they would give you a bank account you
thinking Nigel farage is coming out for
a public ownership of financial
infrastructure uh strange world we live
in yes and the post office has just been
taken over by by a check buyer after 500
years of Independence I'm not saying for
it or against it but it doesn't seem to
have been considered as a as a strategic
asset and don't seem to be enough enough
protections for ordinary consumers uh
and ordinary workers for that
matter on Amazon you you said about
cashless great statistic on Amazon I
think 30% of online retail in this
country goes for Amazon 30% which is
crazy should we just close it down
should we just say no that's it no more
what's what's the what's the what's the
ideal solution really I know you'd say
we should have Alternatives based in the
UK paying tax here but in the short term
what to do about all this is a big
question and it's not an easy question
um we've got to start by recognizing a
problem uh and that's sort of what what
vassel state tries to do to recognize
the extent to which we're American owned
secondly we've got to start measuring
it's an absurd thing to be trying to
deal with a an illness when you know
there's an illness there but you haven't
properly diagnosed it what it is so we
need to to have a proper measure so that
all government departments should should
measure what how much of their
expenditure is made with companies of
each nationality it's not an overly
nationalistic thing to do it's what
other countries do um so start by
recognizing then measure um then I think
we need to have a bi British policy um
as other countries do so conscious
policy there then we need to adjust the
tax system so that it's not so friendly
towards debt and it's not so friendly
towards foreign ownership we need to
make sure that tax is charged fully on
companies uh from whatever country they
come and reduce or eliminate transfer
pricing um in terms of how we get there
from problems that are already
entrenched well that's difficult we need
a very powerful uh uh markets Authority
uh merges and markets group and at the
moment they're they're they're trying
but they they're too weak um and yes
that could allow that could insist that
people uh operate companies operating
here uh demerge different operations um
so you could say for example that that
Amazon has to uh but this is to some
extent actually a department of a US
issue that Amazon should should be
broken broken down into different
different Siz companies I think the main
thing is to reduce further F further
takeovers but yeah it's it it's also
difficult Aon because Amazon are good
great product they they do deliver
things the next day um they do they they
do um have a great customer service and
um it's very convenient and they have a
huge range of products pretty well
anything you can buy anywhere not quite
but it's it's a very wide range um and
uh so it's we should be careful not to
not to knock good service
um but but we we've had our competitors
and they should be encouraged and
incentivized um to to fill spaces in the
market it is very good I'm not going to
lie I've bought so many things off you
know I've got a Prime Membership it is
very good but also I look at I look at
the British High Street over the last 25
years and it's just been it's been
smashed to bits I mean if
you if you I like to call it London OKO
if you sort of this you know if you're
within an hour of London you're fine um
if you go to Winchester you've got two
waterstones bookstores you go a few
hours West to pool 25 years ago
comparable wealth comparable High
streets no bookshops because the point
is the people with those jobs need to
live in London you have this wholly
different when it comes to offline
Commerce there are some exceptions you
can go Hy on why or tot s you know but
or or other major cities like Edinburgh
broadly speaking it's about the
southeast and how close you are to to
London absolutely yes so we're a bit of
an island of of wealth and convenience
and so on but I mean water stones is an
interesting example somebody said I'm
not going to buy your book Angus on
Amazon because I want to support British
companies so I'm going to go to
waterstones and I said well I'm sorry to
disappoint you but water stones is owned
by us private Equity so I said well I'll
go to my local book shop well I said
good but um but I mean in terms of prime
you give that as an example where you've
got a membership of it you've got that
because presumably you get free delivery
on most things and you get a certain
number of free films and you get quite a
lot of things bundled together yeah now
this Bund Ling is um of goods together
by the big companies is something that
really should be challenged because what
it does is it prevents small companies
getting into into each of those sectors
um it's a form of Monopoly power to
bundle stuff together and very
attractive to you and me as consumers to
pay our at or 100 quid a year to to be
to be benefiting from that but it it's
it's very anti- competitive um and
bundling occurs all over the economy so
maybe we don't ban Amazon we just ban
Amazon Prime well no you could have
Amazon Prime but you could say you could
that has to be it has to be only yeah
doing free delivery you have to have a
different service that people buy for
their for their videos and for their
music for Amon because in France as I
understand it I think there's like a
minimum price on books I might be
getting this completely wrong I think
they've got three times as many sort of
independent book shops as we do because
basically they're you're not really
saving that much by buying online is the
point um so there are things like that
and I mean I'm I'm totally in favor of
that I think that's a very good thing to
you know to do um but my point I was
saying about what what Amazon and what
these big tech companies have really
done to the UK High stre over the last
25 years is terrifying it's very bad I
actually think it's a big reason why
we've had brexit I think lots of people
in lots of parts of the UK outside of
the southeast walked around they thought
where I live is looks crap looks awful
um and My worry is with AI applications
that really changes over the last 25
years are just going to go stratospheric
with AI and it's going to be us owned Ai
and all the stuff you're talking about
here is just gonna it's got go to a
whole other level absolutely no AI is
American-owned um and to use chat GPT I
pay my $20 a month and I'm thinking
there it is another but but I need to
because it's a good service um but I
would be happier to pay 20 PS a month to
a UK AI company um but all the things
that I've mentioned the the tax
incentives and the the structure of
industry and the attitude of ministers
and the way that government buys often
