there's a great quote here as well in
the book before we move on um amazing
quote from Denny lwell uh from 1930
America conquers Britain we were
Britain's Colony once she will be our
Colony before she's done well we're not
done yet I mean the Scots might have
something to say that in the next few
years but we're not there yet not in
name but in fact but we shallan make
Britain's mistake too wise to govern the
world we shall merely own it nothing can
stop us nothing what chance has Britain
got against America absolutely very
preent writer um and he he was talk he
did a lot of analysis of how well the
Americans were doing industrially in the
in the N early 20th century um but he he
could he could see the future and of
course the real turning point was the
was the second world war um when Britain
emerged um basically bankrupt um and the
Americans had extracted such a price to
help um with the the the sort of
gunboats for bases deal um which
Churchill said he had no choice but to
do um and uh and perhaps he was right
but from from then on the the American
economic machine was was was moving
across Britain but I think nothing
compared to the last 15 years this is
this is I think where people people say
oh we've always had Ford at dagnam we've
always had American companies here but
it's about the scale of it and as we've
moved to a digital world that's a
digital world which is owned by
Americans and as we've moved to a from
quoted
companies uh an economy dominated by
quoted stock Market companies to a world
a bigger more private companies the
private Equity world that's where the
Americans have really really cleaned up
I mean that is key because if if we had
Peter Hitchens in here he would say that
Brit the British Empire dies in 1940
1941 Dunkirk fall of Singapore and that
after that we become effectively some
sort of dependency on the United States
and I I think that's that's right you
know the second world war is started or
involves two European Colonial Powers
it's ended by these two non-european if
you don't include USSR you know hyper
Powers which they form the the two
Rivals of the Cold War I think that's
true but like you say with this book
actually we don't need to we don't need
to sort of dig and look back 80 years
this is really since the arrival of the
worldwide web um and the early 2000s yes
and and it doesn't have to be like this
it's not as if I mean some people say oh
well this is happening all over the
world but I mean we represent a third of
American foreign investments we've been
we've been taken over to an extent that
France and Germany haven't and yet they
are still under the NATO umbrella so
it's not like we have to sell all our
businesses in order to get to have a a
mutual PCT for military protection it's
it's it's they're different things and
it's one thing to believe in free trade
um which the British and the Americans
and most of the Europeans do but it's
not the same as believing in free trade
in our companies we don't have to allow
everything to be taken over I mean what
the french did famously when pepsic Cola
wanted to take over their big milk and
yogurt company Danon is they labeled it
as a strategic asset and they said our
strategic assets are protected from
takeover back off and now Denon is still
French owned and in a way it was a
strategic asset because one of its roles
was to was to support local communities
to buy milk from small farmers um and to
support um yogurt makers locally and uh
so yes it's industrial but it's the
French recognize the importance of
keeping it keeping it within their
control and it's not just a matter of
Pride but it's it's much more than that
it's about where the profits go and it's
about who regulates the companies so the
danger once you've got a a business
that's that's owned in in America is an
anonymous head off is there across the
Atlantic on another continent can be
making big decisions about layoffs and
priorities and
regulation whether even the they want
that branch of the company to exist I
suppose somebody might be watching this
and there might be sort of you know
Ultra liberal person they two bigots
they're talking about you know uh BR
putting Britain first British there's a
very material I mean as I'm a socialist
you do not want to be sihing off profits
to somewhere else you want your workers
to enjoy High labor standards you want
to be able to collect taxes from the
companies operating and selling goods
and services in this country and I think
that's there's a very important leftwing
I think there's also you know doesn't
it's not entirely leftwing but I think
over the last 20 25 years people from
from the left have thought well
particularly the center left people like
the mandon wing of the labor party if
they're Center left Center you know they
would say well this is just you know
doesn't matter where they're from you
know it's unimportant actually it's very
important if you want to provide a a
well-resourced public um sector
absolutely I mean my favorite question
in the last three years has been who
owns that and of course I've been using
my Apple American computer or phone and
I've been using Google American owned
but it doesn't matter they provide good
information on this um and when I search
who owns that company it's amazing how
often the answer is an American
corporation I mean just to give an
example we we um we thought of uh during
the covid pandemic we we the British
with astroica were the first to develop
a a vaccine and yet at the end of the
time 2third of the vaccines were being
bought almost exactly two-thirds were
bought from American companies um so
beyondtech and um fisa which we just
thought all these are kind of familiar
names these weren't just any names these
were names of American corporations so I
think it does matter who owns them and I
think we can easily find out using
Google
and Google and our phone yeah and and
the point about France I think is key um
I I like I think France does so many
things better than the UK so many things
and people say well it's GDP is L than
ours because they work less they choose
to literally work less they retire
earlier they have a shorter working week
they're GDP per capita if they work the
same as us would be higher because their
productivity is higher but besides all
the you know highspeed rail um the fact
that they've got I think 90% of the
electricity comes from nuclear which
they build their nuclear capability in
terms of um warheads and whatnot
entirely domestic they have a you know a
domestic I mean to be fair we're also
with with with Aviation we share that
with them somewhat um they have a
domestic industrial manufacturing sector
which we basic gave up I mean that's
that's prior to a lot of this stuff and
that's about political choices in the in
the 80s and the '90s A and I would say
it's worse than that it's not that we
gave it up we're still giving it up this
this process of selling off companies is
happening right now there are companies
that are being taken over I mean two big
defense companies Ultra and megit were
sold in the last three or four years but
there are companies now that are subject
to to take over dark dark Trace in in in
Cambridge but but wi canton's just been
sold Big H company with 20,000 staff so
what I'm saying is that it's not just
that we gave gave up what IND industry
we had we're still giving it up it's a
process that's going on right now and it
ought to be a big issue in the current
general election well maybe this will be
the game changer into you but maybe
maybe we'll have to wait a little bit
for that there is a great stat in the
