people to carry on thinking of them as
British or British organizations so
Boots the chemist still uses all the the
reference to noting in the um 19th
century but I mean boots is owned by
Walgreens in America um the same goes
for recent takeovers when Hotel shakala
was taken over by Mars Corporation a few
months ago They carried on referring it
to a British chocolate maker um so
they're they're quite sensible in
keeping the local branding and the
result is that many Ordinary People and
and indeed many people in the in the in
the policy Community don't realize just
how many of our compan our companies of
the companies with which they trade are
us owned I mean it goes down to
everything me coffee shops people think
Coster is owned by Whitbread well it was
but now it's owned by Coca-Cola and
cafiro as well as owned by CFO is owned
by an American Lives who lives in London
an American individual right and
Starbucks obviously Starbucks is
obviously from Seattle um a lot of
coffee sold by McDonald's um so yeah
pretty well the coffee markets the
retail coffee markets sewn up high
margin Market um and one that where
where the
it's it's increasingly hard for people
to compete do your patriotic G you go to
weather spoons I wouldn't say that uh
it's not it's not it's a illy it's not
bad coffee but before people have a go
at me I'm not suggesting that for a
moment but that does hit on an
interesting problem if you if you're
unhappy about so much being owned by the
Americans is the right thing to do to
start acting in a sort of hair shirted
way and say I'm not going to order any
from quite from Amazon I'm not going to
go to Starbucks it seems to me that that
is not a formula that works in terms of
the long term it's policy change we need
we we need the government to have a a bi
British policy the Americans have a bi
British policy most European countries
have a by sorry the Americans have a bi-
American policy and most Europeans have
a a biocal policy but British don't the
thing you said about boots as well is
fascinating I mean we we made a Tik Tok
about the history of boots a few months
ago uh obviously Florence boot Jesse
boot um and and this is still capitalism
this is still private firms nobody's
suggesting it's radical or revolutionary
I don't want people to think that for a
moment but it really that that story of
the of the boots firm and what it became
what it's become I think really shows
you an extraordinary trajectory for
British capitalism over the last 100
years people don't know this but I think
is it Nottingham University a lot of
their Estates are were given to them
bequeathed to them by Florence boot um
at one point it was the most popular
workingclass library in the country
boots um and what it's become instead is
effectively a tax dodging um
exploitative company which rips off the
NHS um through prescription and whatnot
uh and it's effectively a means of
sending large amounts of money from this
country to the United States and that
shows you how much is changed and your
book just gives example after example
you said bourneville a moment ago H and
Clarks I've not heard the Clarks one can
you well bourneville was cadb so C Cadre
was taken over by by um uh craft wasn't
it and um with the with the RBS funding
it with RBS funding it and and with a
with various undertakings about What
factories they keep keep open which were
not able to be delivered um uh well
Street in Somerset is a is a town that
used to be dependent on one on one
business Clark's Shoes and it was very
successful um company and very
prosperous town and when Clarks
effectively declined uh with the growth
of Far Eastern Manufacturing um it the
the the town lost the lost its heart and
lost a lot of its wealth and certainly
lost the apprenticeships um and so
that's that's been typical of the
decline of the UK but in many cases
that's because companies have been taken
over by by us so that sounds more like
um a post-industrial story whereas
bournville um arguably boots with
Nottingham less so I mean you could you
can point to an inflection point of a
takeover by a us company are there any
other sort of major examp I mean craft
is not us but are there any other major
examp craft is us is it is it or it's
it's no no you're thinking Nestle the
craft is us that is isn't it absolutely
and um so there there are quite a lot
where where the takeovers have happened
recently so something like arm in in
Cambridge yeah and as you with a company
like that of course they like having the
research facility there but ultimately
the the big decisions for that company
are going to be made where the where the
headquarters are and where the listing
is um so that's owned partly by American
corporations partly by Japanese
and it's listed in New York now so I
think that there's a whole question
about the relisting of companies where
because of CR the Builder Merchant
recently moved to have an American
listing flutter the gambling company um
but even huge companies like shell have
seriously considered relisting from
London to New York um and you can see
why with high valuations there it's
going to be better for the executives
but also it's going to be better for the
shareholders so there there are reasons
why people want to relist there but it
seems to me that that's quite damaging
to London but it's also it's a first
step in a company becoming changing its
nationality so so what are the major you
said that are undervalued and it's
something I've always I've heard in
circulation a lot you know footsy
companies are undervalued what explain
why that is I think it's partly because
American institutions are better funded
and take a longer term view um it's
partly because they'll they'll it's
thought that they will prosper more um
more in in the US environment lower
regulations um more scope for expansion
um so it's about creating a an
environment in which they'll they'll do
well um but we we could we could take
the view the British government could
take the view that it it it doesn't
allow takeovers in the same way that
it's done so in the last 20 or 30 years
um at the moment we've got a real real
jumble sale going on all sorts of
businesses are being taken over and the
government show show no concern about it
there's a big uh computer software cyber
security company in Cambridge called
Dark Trace that's just being taken over
by um tomama Bravo which is a specialist
in US Chicago based specialist in in
software companies and they they know
what to do they'll they'll it's so
predictable what they'll do they'll gear
up to buy it nothing wrong with that
well perhaps there is because that
gearing will reduce their tax
significantly and perhaps increase risk
they'll gear up to buy it they'll tend
to increase prices if they're uh other
businesses or anything to go by they'll
tend to reduce costs and they'll achieve
what they call synergies which means
sort of cross- selling and um buying
collectively um so they're it's a it's
it's a well-worn path and the British
government are doing and policymakers
are doing very little of anything about
it the cabri example is great because I
think Peter mandelson that time was the
trades are and you have the loan I think
it was a 7 billion pound loan from RBS
to craft to buy cabur so at that point
it was a taxpayer owned bank all the
more remarkable and ultimately I think
it rediles in Switzerland I think the
tax doile changes they lay off workers
and they increased the amount I think
temporar change and I think they
increased the amount of sugar in the
chocolates the quality of the chocolate
