deteriorated including famously the
cream eggs yes so it's it's quite
remarkable that a publicly owned
taxpayer backed bank is
financing this crazy set of outcomes and
politicians aren't really aware of it
being you know a bad idea one of the
reason reason these takeovers are so
attractive to the US multinationals and
indeed other multinationals is because
they can to some extent to a large
extent eliminate tax and that makes
makes a company more attractive if you
can uh and and there are so many
legitimate legal ways they can do that
but particularly it's around what's
called transfer pricing so that you put
your you put your trademarks in an
offshore location such as Cayman Islands
and then your local UK
subsidiary pays its pays these for the
use of these trademarks pays large sums
to the tax Haven and it reduces the
local taxes uh local profits and almost
it sometimes eliminates the local tax
while the real profit is is taken into
the tax Haven where it's taxfree so this
is something we could do something about
but it's actually quite difficult for
the British in some ways to do to to act
on it because of the 10 major tax Havens
the British control eight so we would
have to be quite radical and there has
been talk about it by chancellors but
it's only been talk we'd have to be
quite radical in what we do with our tax
Havens so far all it's gone all they've
gone for is more transparency saying
well you've got to say who owns what but
that doesn't deal with the the core
issue of allowing them to operate in
that way all the things you're talking
about I mean they're coded as leftwing
you know it's coded tax avoidance tax
evasion taking on the tax Havens I I
genuinely don't understand Angus how
over the last 10 years these haven't
become mainstream demands among centor
right politicians centor right um party
activists voters I find it absolutely
crazy the thing you said about the
trademark what's the deal with um
Starbucks and the Netherlands so how
does that work because I've heard
something like that they they root
certain taxes through certain
jurisdictions I'm I'm a bit confused so
if you can clarify that I'd be grateful
well I have to be careful what I say
about an individual Corporation because
these companies can can be litigious um
but from what uh Reuters have researched
it it's clear it seems clear that um
Starbucks have got a long record of
minimizing their tax within the law um
but certainly not within the spirit of
the law so that they theyve put their
trademarks I think in the Cayman Islands
and they do they can do their um have
subsidiaries owned in Amsterdam and they
can do their I think things like trading
in coffee if it goes through um in
Commodities profits on that are very
lowly tax
in places like Switzerland um so anyway
it's not it's not about one particular
corporation it's it's it's a pattern of
behavior that that they show um and
actually one of the biggest tax Havens
is Ireland um so apple and ancestry.com
and lots of the big uh tech companies uh
Facebook and lots of the big farmer
compan us farmer companies they trade
trade through Ireland so they're selling
into the UK through Ireland um with a
much lower tax rate um typically 12 a
half% if they're paying the official
rate or if they've got a special deal uh
far lower sometimes almost zero not much
above zero but it's been great for
Ireland because they've got a they get
about almost 20% of their budget
government budget paid for by the taxes
that they do collect at these lower
rates on this topic of Ireland you also
mention in the book about how
multinationals kind of cook the books I
don't mean that in a in a sort of
accusatory way they they
can they can confuse perhaps GDP figures
and and what they're meant to express so
often when we think of GDP we think of
quality of life we think of you know
Prosperity GDP per capita is obviously a
very good way of judging that Ireland's
GDP per capita is about twice that now
it's getting there twice that of the
UK um and if you go to Ireland it's not
it doesn't look twice as wealthy as much
of the UK and presumably that's because
of these tax dodging multinationals
absolutely the scale of movements
through the tax Havens is such that it
distorts the position in the in the
world tables of GDP and so companies
countries that look as if they're quite
highly um quite important in GDP terms
uh like Switzerland and Ireland and
Singapore um uh once you take out what
are effectively tax-driven transactions
their position in the tables drops right
down so yes it's what I found was that
the British were very reluctant to
produce any figures on o on on this that
they they don't collect them some of
what they do collect they they don't
make public but the Americans are much
more open and much more systematic in
their collecting of of numbers and I
struck a rich seam with the uh Internal
Revenue Service there's an obscure page
it's absolutely not advertised anywhere
and you have to search quite hard to
find it um and when you do you can't
just cut and paste it because it's a
directory to various PDFs anyway one of
those is a a set of PDFs of a
spreadsheet of all the countries that
American corporations trade with the big
multinationals and how much profit they
make and how much tax they pay on it how
many people they employ it is two or
three years out of date because it takes
them time to collect and collate the
information but it's an absolute
Treasure Trove and it ought to be looked
at far more by the British I mean here
we are we the country is deeply
penetrated by a foreign economic power
and we're not even even watching we're
not even measuring and that economic
power is telling us what they're doing
if only we'd read their numbers so for
example um the US multinationals turn
annual turnover in the UK uh is now $800
billion put that into Sterling divide by
28 million homes in this country and
that's equivalent to
23,000 per household is the equivalent
of how much Us sales there are in the UK
so it's big but they're willing to give
these numbers and we're just not reading
them I mean I spoke to um I I did an
interview with Philip Hammond who was
very good actually and very helpful um
but he former Chancellor former
Chancellor but he was under the the
misapprehension that the American
Americans employ just a million Brits
and these figures reveal that it's well
over one and a half million and actually
if you include indirect employees people
like uber and Amazon Flex drivers it's
probably 2 million Brits working for
American corporations so about twice
what the what the British think it is so
the penetration is far is far deeper and
wider uh than the establishment willing
to accept and they're just not looking
at the numbers yeah you have a stat here
which is that um us corporations have
more employees in the UK than France
Germany Portugal Italy and Sweden
combined absolutely and that's of course
authoritative because that comes from
the Americans own figures from the
IRS yeah I mean those aren't small
countries France Germany Italy they're
the the G7 economies no so France is
Germany's a big country than ours and
while we've got 2 million while 2
million British employees work for
Americans the Germans only have 450,000
but in southern Europe in Spain and
Italy each of those countries only have
200,000 working for American corporation
nothing wrong with working for American
corporations but it's a good way of
measuring the extent to which they've
they've taken control of the economy
