this process of selling off companies is
happening right now there are companies
that are being taken over I mean two big
defense companies Ultra and megit were
sold in the last three or four years
it's not just that we gave gave up what
IND industry we had we're still giving
it up it's a process that's going on
right now and it ought to be a big issue
in the current general
election you'll sometimes hear the
phrase that Britain is the 51st state
and it's inarguable that United Kingdom
does have a very profound strong
historic relationship with the US not
least because we share a
language when that term 51st state is
appealed to it often means military
alliances or culture film books
music but what if Britain increasingly
was subordinated to shaped by the United
States when it comes to business and the
economy and what if that subordination
had intensified to an extraordinary
extent over recent Decades of course the
Batton of power was passed across the
Atlantic after the second world war
that's nothing new but the arrival of
the internet and the tech Giants we take
for granted from meta to alphabet
seemingly compound us power around the
world but nowhere more so than right
here in the UK today's guest has written
a brilliant book about Britain's
Economic and Business dependence on the
United States and how more importantly
that shapes the political decisions we
make here right at home Angus Hanson
welcome to Downstream thank you I often
say at the start of an interview I
really enjoyed the book it was so
informative I have to say this
was surprisingly informative I think
it's one of the best books I'll read
this year certainly one of the most
important before we get on to though to
establish some of your Authority your
credentials a moment ago we were talking
about a very shrewd investment you made
a long time ago in a in a gentleman
called Warren Buffett can you illuminate
that well it it actually wasn't a shrewd
investment it just turned out to look
like that I bought one share in
barkshire haway Warren Buffett's company
and it cost £2,000 at the time in the
late 1980s and it's now worth £
630,000 or ,000 actually so half million
pounds and um it's uh I did it just to
get a hold of the annual reports in
those days you couldn't look them up on
the Internet so you needed you needed to
get them sent and sent to you so you
could read them and I get them once a
year still um so it's worked out well
but I think bar hathway is a a bit of a
symbol of American capitalism it's been
a an operator in the UK it's been the
operator in of businesses in the US but
it's also been an investor and it's very
much focused on um how it allocates its
capital and it's very much focused on
going for businesses with high margins
that have what Warren Buffett calls Moes
that are defensible um and that's
probably typical of many American
businesses so this book vassel State how
America runs Britain we've got a hard
copy here Immaculate hard copy I thought
we'd show my well thumbed one instead
all my notes it really is Sensational
it's got so many great um facts and
vignettes in it and the essential
hypothesis is that the business
relationship and of course that
percolates through to politics and
geopolitics and Military and what not
but the business relationship between
the UK and the
US is quite unique particularly when you
compare it to say the US's relationships
to other European countries
so what is so spectacular about
America's business presence in the
United Kingdom it's mostly at scale they
have just got so many businesses that
they've owned for a long time um and
that have expanded but there've been
these two great prongs of American
expansion in the last 15 years um the
tech businesses so the big the big five
or six whoever you want to count um
Apple Google um Microsoft and so on but
also private Equity so private Equity is
much more under the radar activity but
it's dominated by us companies Apollo
KKR um Silver Lake and these com
Blackstone of course and these companies
have have really taken over huge SES of
the British economy um and so so that
that's that's the kind of scale of
domination but it's also the type of
control that the American businesses
have what I found in my research is that
they've they've not just bought up
assets like property but they've bought
the what I call the bridges and the
pipes of our economy so in in medieval
times the thing that you wanted to own
was a bridge where you could charge
people a toll and where it is the only
way from one side of river to another
and that's exactly what the Americans
have done in so many areas so for
example if you do dating through Bumble
or Tinder you're you're maybe dating a a
British person but you're paying an
American for the privilege or if you if
you book if you sell something
secondhand on eBay you're again selling
to a to a British person but paying a
royalty to the Americans for crossing
their Bridge the same goes for using
Airbnb uh you book Cott booked a stay in
a cottage in Wales um from a Welsh
person maybe and you're you're you're
paying the Americans 15% for doing so
but even even businesses that we think
of as selling are actually often those
bridges so for example Amazon two-thirds
of its almost two-thirds of its sales
are not things that they store in their
warehouses and and send out but they're
things where they're effectively
organizing the L Logistics and a British
person is buying from a British supplier
but paying the Americans on the way and
of course there's AWS their web services
which it's out there but when it's all
sort of in in black and white that we
have know MI5 MI6 they base their
internet properties off web services
which are provided by Amazon so this is
the cloud the cloud is American-owned
and it's it's either Amazon Microsoft
Oracle a little bit of Apple a little
bit of IBM but they're all us companies
and we store all our critical D our
government stores all its critical data
there and so do our businesses and we
pay for the privilege Salesforce is
another one where software is stored
there so we're we we're very much
beholden to them and in the process we
we're paying them for the opportunity to
do business at all and again I'm some
I'm on the left and I've thought about
these things for a long time but you
there's a few pages where you sort of
basically illuminate list and list and
list reams of all these firms and these
Bridges these metaphorical bridges in
the UK economy that have been purchased
by the US and after reading the book I
went to a um retail Park I live in
Hampshire and uh you know it's full of
SUVs it's it's it's basically how the UK
economy moved in the last 20 years
encapsulate so much one of which was
these stores and I'm looking at all of
them I'm thinking who owns that who owns
that who owns that so much of it's us
private Equity or they're they're
actually just us chains and um it really
made me rethink quite a lot you've
talked about some of the examples you
know from the perspective of Navara we
operate obviously on YouTube um Facebook
Twitter but even the the the tools to
edit this interview will be Adobe which
again as a software service cloud-based
product yep every company you've
mentioned is American uh every company
you've mentioned is highly profitable
and um every company you've mentioned is
pretty well indispensable for for
British production of of podcasts and
and other media and indeed for our um
for our day-to-day lives but so much so
that even when you want to submit tax
