today is one more of those uh last five
episodes of the uh it's not what they
told you uh series it's not just one
more episode it's uh it's with someone I
hold very very dear uh someone that I
consider a teacher in very interesting
ways she didn't know that uh she only
knew that when I met her right now
because I do spend a lot of time
following her work and uh and I think
she's fabulous honestly in her out
outlook on life and the way she analyzes
topics uh and then I met her in person
and I was right so uh that's uh that's
um you know it's actually quite
rewarding when you you know they say
don't meet your Heroes no no I'm happy
with this one uh my my guest today is uh
Grace Bley who is an avid Economist
journalist uh uh an author uh she wrote
three books uh on uh the uh topics of uh
capitalism and how capitalism is
affecting the world her latest is
vulture capitalist which I have to say
having lived in California for a while
is such an you know an appropriate title
for the entire genre of venture
capitalist if you want and um and I
think uh uh you know in my attempt to
get you to understand our world a little
differently than what they tell us our
world is like uh I think Grace truly was
the one guest that I wanted to uh to
sort of conclude our conversations
around the economy with uh so without
further Ado I'm going to uh enjoy my
time with my guest today thank you for
being here thank you so much for that
absolutely lovely introduction Mo it
means a huge amount especially coming
from you it's uh quite true so uh I no
pressure okay yeah I'm hoping I won't
disappoint you now let's see I don't
think you will I I love the way the the
take you you take on the topics that you
you analyze and I and I I said several
times on this podcast I am a
recovering uh capitalist uh you know in
rehab basically uh because for many many
many years I believed the promise I
