drank the Kool-Aid uh you know I had
many startups I basically embraced the
promise of
Freedom that you know if you if you
think to the to the to the history of
capitalism and the idea that pre
capitalism there was only royalty and
feudalism and you know there were
peasants and Lords and you know everyone
had to pay to work for the peas for the
Lords and and the Lords worked for the
royalty uh and and capitalism sort of
sneaked in
you know with the British Empire and the
trades of spices and so on where some of
the peasants somehow found ways to make
money and and you know and you sort of
take that story as like this is true
Freedom everyone now is
free uh I've then realized actually
partially through your work that that's
not true at all that we're the furthest
thing as as the subtitle of your latest
uh book says you know this is the death
of Freedom that the promise is not at
all what was delivered so that's all I
will say today the rest of the episode
is for you great I'll try and take up as
much time as I can no I mean it's so
interesting hearing you say that because
in a lot of ways I kind of wrote the
book for someone like you who was uh in
one way or another taken in by the very
seductive narrative that we have around
capitalism and freedom and it's a
seductive narrative in number of ways um
I think for those who succeed under
capitalism it's very seductive because
the idea that we're all free and that
the market sorts us into the best down
to the worst and wherever you end up in
the hierarchy it's a reflection of your
natural talents your natural
capabilities it's seductive obviously
for those at the top because it kind of
legitimizes your power and authority and
wealth um and even for those not at the
top the idea the the way things are is
somehow rational and
Justified and fair yeah it makes you
