almost less angry it kind of makes you
just take things the way they are and
just accept them because you think oh
well you know I'm not Jeff Bezos or Elon
Musk I'm not as intelligent as those
people so no wonder you know I'm earning
a tiny amount of money and can barely
afford to pay my rent because I'm just
worth somehow less as a person um so
this narrative that we are all free
we're free to shape the conditions of
our own existence we're free to work as
hard as we like and if we do work as
hard as we like and succeed and apply
ourselves then we will inevitably rise
to the top it's seductive for a lot of
people the only issue is that it's
completely and utterly not true um and
the way I like to talk about this you
know we we're told this I this kind of
story about the way that Society works
is it almost being like a game so you
know you're competing against other
people to win in the game and the
rewards are money and wealth and power
and esteem and those who are better at
the game get to the top and those who
are worse you know fall to the bottom
but the issue is that we're all playing
this game most of us and then there's a
very small category of people who are
kind of outside of the game and instead
of playing the game they're making the
rules they're the make the game else
exactly yeah um and these are the people
who basically plan capitalist economies
the institutions and individuals who
have so much power over the way that the
world works that they're able to
basically shape the conditions of life
for so many people and that power is
generally unearned it um you know comes
from whether that's a position of
inherited wealth often it comes from
corruption and influence of that kind
that people are able to exert um and it
allows a small number of people to to
undermine that idea of
freedom um and to enclose the world and
shape the world in the way that they
