would like to to see it and then we're
all forced to play the kind of the game
that they've set for us um I use quite a
lot of examples to illustrate this point
um that you know this idea that we live
in a free market capitalist economy
doesn't really work in practice because
of all this kind of centralized planning
that takes place Within These free
market economies and the one I'd just
like to quickly talk about because it's
very relevant at the moment is the
example of the company Boeing oh yes um
yeah so you might have seen Boeing uh in
the news quite a lot recently one of the
doors blew out of its planes mid-flight
there's been all sorts of engineering
issues with the company um and actually
if you look back to 20189 there were two
crashes involving Boeing planes the 737
Max disasters um in which nearly people
yeah nearly nearly 350 people died yeah
um and initially Boeing tried to kind of
blame the pilots uh for for both of
these crashes but investigations later
revealed that it had been a software
flaw that was kind of built into the
plane that caused it the the plane's
nose to dive down and the pilot could
not really do anything to rectify the
issue um and subsequent investigation
from both regulators and journalists
looking into this showed that a big fact
in uh kind of demonstrating why Boeing
had allowed this basically unsafe plane
to go to market was that it had shifted
towards this um corporate culture of
basically denigrating engineering
expertise lionizing Senior Management
inserting layers and layers and layers
of management whose role it was to cut
costs Crush unions kind of subjugate
workers ignore whistleblowers and just
deliver um cheap planes that could be
sold to Boeing's various network of
contract that exists with governments
all over the world not least the
American state and make massive profits
and they did that they were able to
achieve massive massive profits
