distributed loads of money to
shareholders um and it was kind of you
know a classic taale of of corporate
greed in which you didn't see any kind
of competitive pressure from the alleged
free market because Boeing was in this
position of basically kind of oligopoly
power no exactly and equally you know
you have other people who might say oh
well if the government was able to kind
of step in and uh you know make the
market fairer or subject this firm to
regulation then this never would have
happened there's only one issue with
that which is the the government was
helping Boeing at every step yeah so it
was one of the biggest recipients of
corporate welfare that means it it got
money from the government from the US
state in terms of taxes subsidies it had
huge numbers of contracts with the US uh
with the US state it was a very integral
part of the military-industrial complex
in terms of Regulation at the time of
these disasters uh the airlines so the
Aerospace manufacturers being regulated
in the same way as the banks in the
runup to the 2008 financial crisis this
is self-regulation yeah and Boeing was
being regulated by a unit of the Federal
Aviation Authority that sat inside
Boeing and workers were being paid by
Boeing yes uh Congress had just passed
another round of deregulation for the
airline industry saying that no uh
manufacturer would ever release a plane
that was um you know unsafe because it
would damage its position in the market
capitalism would never allow such a
thing to happen because we have free
market competition and then even after
all of this had come to light and Boeing
was charged uh because of uh all of
these failings it's still got a massive
backd door bailout during the covid-19
pandemic so that you have this kind of
cabal of senior Executives wealthy
shareholders politicians individuals
within a powerful State um who are
brought together in something like the
