military-industrial complex and who are
entirely insulated from free market
competition and also actually quite well
insulated from democracy as well so they
exist in their own little bubble at the
very top able to make these massive
decisions that have huge effects for
everyone else and yet we're told that we
live in this free market system Boeing's
workers were subject to this ruthless
Market yes but the executives are the
top not the top of course you know
Boeing has a um a very uh um privileged
not important position let's say for the
US economy because the competitor is
Airbus which is not American which
basically means that if boing fails the
US economy fails or the US position in
Aerospace fails and according or
commercial Aerospace fails and
accordingly the U the American
government would never let them fail if
you want right it's very very similar to
the analogy of 2008 the big Banks right
too big to fail if you want now the of
course the the interesting side of this
is that basically it means that we are
asking The Regulators we we want the
government if if you want to say
capitalism is freedom because everyone
can do what they can to succeed without
government regulation The Regan uh
economics if you want the what you know
what Tater allowed to uh to to to do you
know tried to do here in the UK or
pretended to do here in the UK is
basically saying hold on no regulation
from the government it's freedom for the
market economy uh and at the same time
now when we ask the government to
regulate uh by the definition there is
really none of that because the benefits
are there is a conflict of interest for
around the benefits so that's a very
very um there is really no Freedom if
you want when you think about how uh we
end up in places like this so so we we
we constantly hear the words around you
know those big influencers somewhere who
own all the money or own all the weals
