who are making all the decisions you
know uh in a way that basically affects
every single one of
us how do how does that actually play in
reality I mean is there really like a a
backdoor meeting with where people worth
less than 100 million dollar are not
allowed in that meeting and the others
come together and say okay from now on
we're going to start another pandemic
and you know that's going to right is
that how it happens no generally not um
although there are moments
of generally crisis when um you do see
uh powerful people come together often
in a room and make really big decisions
about what happens next so the example I
always think about is um the financial
crisis when um the the central banks got
together with the the heads of the major
Banks um and basically made a plan for
the world economy um and there was a
study that was done after that that
showed that those banking institutions
that had the closest links with the
American state ended up doing better
from the bailouts than um than those
that didn't um so you know occasionally
and I think this is where the kind of
conspiracy theory stuff comes from you
do see powerful people coming together
and actively making those decisions in a
collective way but the vast majority of
the time the cooperation is Not That
explicit and it's not that open it is
the subject of a kind of networked
organization that allows people with
similar interests to come together to
lobby and to influence politicians and
political power now there's nothing
inherently wrong with that this is how
democracy works you know you have
different groups of individuals who
organize within Civil Society to make
their interests known and try to apply
pressure on politicians or whoever else
they're trying to pressure the issue is
is that we live in a world in which only
one set of people have the ability to do
that and the vast majority of people are
