actively denied the capacity to organize
in order to demand things of politicians
and are basically repressed and and
crushed and beaten down when they try to
demand things explain so um we talked
about neoliberalism right about the
Thatcher and Reagan and they're coming
to power saying we want to deliver free
markets right um what's very interesting
is that the first things that neoliberal
leaders do when they come to power is
basically go to war with uh any
organizations that manifest Collective
power particularly the unions so in the
UK the first thing that Margaret
actually does when she come to power is
go to war with the country's unions and
she wins she crushes the miners who are
trying to fight for their jobs hold on
one second so let's define new NE
liberalism for everyone oh sorry so new
new new Liber liberalism in my in my
understanding is government will not
regulate this is free market economics
every everything happens with the
freedom and Justice of free market
government is a is a is a burden uh
let's leave everything to Nature if you
want the nature of economic free markets
exactly that's so so so of course Reagan
on in the US thater here were basically
the leaders of that idea go let's go
back to the unions bit which I think is
fascinating when you really think about
it no that was immensely well explained
because that's exactly how they
presented their ideology exactly that's
how they so the ideology yeah exactly um
and it was really powerful I think
because people bought into that idea of
of Freedom individual Freedom exactly
yeah um but what's interesting is the um
contrast between that promise of Freedom
which is we will come to power and we
will promote individual Freedom we will
give you control over your life your
pions exactly yes and then the actual
actions of these governments when they
come to power and the first thing they
do as I've said is um yeah literally use
