the power of the state to beat back and
divide people who are organizing to try
and defend their interests first on the
list are the unions so uh Reagan
famously goes to war with pacco in the
US uh thatcha goes to war with the
miners in the UK and then all of this
anti-union legislation is introduced to
make it much harder for workers to
organize to defend their interests and
so you see union membership decline
quite substantially over the course of
the next several decades um they
also uh dissolve other forms of
collective power that existed in the
economy at the time so Thatcher for
example shut down the GLC the greater
London Corporation and she had been in
this kind of battle with the GLC because
there were lots of kind of left
politicians that were organizing in uh
this London Metropolitan Authority uh to
try and do things like um you know
Thatcher wanted to build the London
docklands right where we now have Canary
Warf and all of these big financial
institutions the people living there at
the time said we don't want this they
actually put together a a document
called The People's plan for the London
dockins with the support of the GLC and
they said our children deserve to be
more than lavatory attendants for
passing businessmen we want a different
vision for this space which is where we
live um and partly because of its
involvement with Community organizing
like that that just shut down the GLC so
you know any form of community power
that it had been helping to support was
then crushed as well um so you see these
these politicians come to power and
their first aim is to crush any
resistance any resistance that comes
from the V mass of ordinary people right
at the same time they deliver
unparalleled freedom for those of the
top so suddenly you can literally move
your money anywhere in the world because
you have the removal of capital controls
