and exchange controls tax especially the
the taxes that have been levied on those
at the very top of society um were
slashed um you saw a transformation in
regulation and again this is often cast
as
deregulation which implies that the
state is shrinking and stepping back but
that isn't what it was really like it
was actually a proliferation of
Regulation but regulation that benefited
those at the top particularly the big
Banks Banks need lots of Regulation
because you know they need an
environment of certainty Banks always
need to know that ultimately if
anything's going to go wrong then the
state there to bail them out exactly so
that's why regulation is important to
the banking system and you got in many
ways lots of new regulation but instead
of Regulation to protect workers or
protect the environment it was
regulation to protect the banks so what
all this shows I think is that
neoliberalism was never really about
Freedom it was about freedom for some
those at the very top and in order to
protect the freedom I.E the wealth and
power of those at the top they saw it as
necessary to constrain the freedom of
everyone else and particularly their
freedom to organize and you see this
today with demonstrators being put in
prison for years for peaceful protest
this is a continuation of the same logic
which is we're putting people in jail to
protect Freedom whose Freedom the
freedom of those at the top which is
quite fascinating when you really think
about it because that becomes today
really the um the underlying current of
everything that you see online
everything that you see I mean in a very
interesting way since the rean Tater
year
individualism we spoke about this
briefly before we started becomes truly
uh the dream of Every Now consumer not
human Okay the the idea is that as a as
