a human now in this uh Fair world where
dog eats dog but dog can become very big
and I can be je you know Jeff basos if I
really worked hard enough suddenly you
start to believe that you're competing
with any everyone else rather than
cooperating with everyone else which I
have to admit in my in my blurry years
uh you know I used to because I'm raised
in the East and and and you know
educated in the west I used to think
that this is something wrong with the
West that individual freedom is highly
prioritized above societal and Community
benefit okay but but now I can get it I
can get that this is an agenda that BAS
basically says hey if all of you guys
fight okay and argue and be rude to each
other which now is explosive on social
media then you're never going to
organize and annoy the rest of us up
here in the penthouse trying to just
make a little more money here exactly I
literally couldn't have put it better
myself it's thank you uh my my teacher
said I was so where where does that put
the politician then because
interestingly You' you'd look back at
the Thatcher years and say oh my God
it's the best thing that happened to the
UK you know the she was the politician
that came and saved all of us right and
you could actually back that up with
years of prosperity in the city of
London if you want where so much money
was being made for so many people and so
many Bentleys started to show up on the
streets so there are signs that things
are improving
was was Margaret trer or or Ronald
Reagan actually working for the people
uh were they governments of the people
or governments of the
elite Thatcher and Reagan and Thatcher
in particular actually had this
ingenious strategy um and that just said
the method is economics the object is to
change the soul she wanted to transform
the way that people related to each
other in exactly the way that you said
