in the the 60s and 70s it was in some
ways the peak of organizing you know you
had a strong labor movement you'd had
you know um in the US the peace movement
the protest against Vietnam the
anti-apartheid movement that was
spreading around the world and spreading
through uh through the student movement
you had the environmental movement you
had all of these people coming together
to make their power known and it was
starting to disrupt the operation of
capital ISM because these people were
gaining political power um they were you
know able to um really yeah present a
threat to to vested interests and
neoliberalism was what undid that and it
did so through a two-pronged approach
the first one was to create an
ultimately unsustainable Financial boom
um the benefits of which would be used
to incentivize people
to behave in a certain way and that's
the second prong which is this project
of
societal sociological and fundamentally
psychological transformation that
underpins this transition which is as
you said about how do we stop people
from organizing together in these
movements that are threatening us and
get them to start competing against one
another um and I I'm I'm kind of writing
a book proposal at the moment that looks
at this exact thing I'll publish it
great uh but the the three trends that I
think were most
pronounced were the shift from workers
to
entrepreneurs the shift from citizens to
Consumers of public services and the
shift from communities to
households so rather than seeing
yourself as a worker as you might have
done in the the postwar years Thatcher's
aim was to encourage you to see yourself
as an entrepreneur an investor
entrepreneur benefit um and the the
reason that that is particularly
beneficial is because
