workers organize yeah they all have the
same interests often if they're not paid
well they'll talk to their peer exactly
and say hey are you unable to put food
on the table too right yeah exactly um
and that was a problem because these
workers were coming together and they
were organizing and they were saying
we're not getting paid enough so let's
go on strike but if you're an
entrepreneur and you know this better
than anyone you're competing against all
the other entrepreneurs it's your job to
um you know use your Savvy as an
investor to invest in your human capital
so this comes out with education
education is now something that you pay
for and you take out a loan to invest in
it because it's investment in capital in
your human capital wow you um you know
you take out a loan to make sure that
you're able to purchase your own home
and that again can provide a source of
wealth that insulates you from life's
risks you um again get your own private
pension and you have to invest that in
the stock market and when the stock
market does well which means wealth is
um increasing at the top you then think
oh well wealth is being created at the
top but I'm getting a little bit of it
as well so why would I resist even if
your salar stayed the same if you have
assets then you're much more likely to
identify with the interest
of those at the top because if the value
of your house the value of your pension
is going up then that means your
interests are aligned with with those
kinds of people um so that shift is is
really important and then on the flip
side it's the the kind of proliferation
of asset ownership is accompanied by
this dramatic expansion of debt now debt
is the key here because the unleashing
of the financial power of the banks is
what brings us this boom that creates
all of this Prosperity this alleged
Prosperity that we get from the 1980s
onwards it's all largely driven by the
