removal of exchange controls and the
removal of capital controls so money is
now free to flow all over the world and
Banks can now create much more money
through lending than they had been able
to do in the past a lot of that lending
goes into mortgages it means that you
can now take out a massive mortgage and
use that to buy a home what happens when
you have more money
chasing the same amount of stuff you
have more liquidity chasing the same
number of houses house prices go up it
creates a massive Financial boom we know
what happened from the 90s onwards that
boom ends up taking over the whole
global economy creating massive economic
growth and prosperity for lots of
different people but ultimately that was
unsustainable and in the process you
have this Beast of debt that is released
and debt is a really powerful discipline
inning tool for people because you know
on the one hand you might have some
assets but on the other hand you now
have to manage your liabilities as well
so if you're relatively wealthy then you
always make sure that you know you try
and have more Equity say in your home
than than your liabilities um you kind
of manage your debt and your assets
you're a good kind of mini capitalist
who makes very healthy financial
decisions but if you're not paid very
well um you might find that suddenly the
value of your liabilities is higher than
the value of your assets um and instead
of saying oh well you're not being paid
a high enough wage to be able to afford
the things that you need to survive
people will instead say you've been
irresponsible you've made bad financial
decisions and that's how you've got
yourself into debt even though they'
taken out the debt just to be able to
pay for things they needed to survive so
it's you internalize that you think I'm
a failure because I'm in debt you don't
think I need to organize with people to
try and have a higher wage and actually
