today you know Financial issu isues are
driving a lot of people particularly
young men to self harm and suicide
because they internalize that blame they
think it's my fault because they they
look at the the the lifestyle of the top
guy uh who is you know who seems to be
so clever and in a very very interesting
way for men that means he's very
masculine right he he he managed to
succeed and become the best hunter in
the tribe right and and I'm not able to
do this so it's not just that I'm not
able able financially it's basically an
identity issue that would lead to that
it's quite interesting as well when you
when you it doesn't matter as a matter
of fact if you're gaining Capital you
know in your assets that you bought in
debt I think the sentence that you said
there which is so interesting is thatb
is a very powerful disciplinary
instrument so so in a you know where I
grew up in you know a developing economy
you get you keep the people busy with
football and putting bread on the table
right uh in in more advanced economies
like here I think the idea is if you had
given people enough which was really
what was happening post World War II
with the you know baby boomers creating
so much GDP it seems that in my mind
that basically meant they had so much
time to start pondering yes stuff that
could actually harm the government
interes or the top players right or the
you know the the the ones that the
government works for really and and in a
in an interesting way to keep people
busy then student loans other loans
mortgages car loans and everything
becomes you know the the the shackles
that basically keep us uh restrained I
have to say what I've never really
discussed this in public maybe we should
have it over coffee but I'll ask you
anyway one of my
experiences which most people have never
had is I was witness because of my
position at Google and because of you
