know uh at the time and because of my
history of being a very prominent
businessman in the Middle East for a
long time so I was very much entangled
into what was happening with the Arab
Spring um not that I had any views on it
because I had not lived in my home
country uh Egypt for maybe 20 years at
the time but you know i' i' I'd been in
a position of I know the internet really
well so almost everyone was constantly
reaching out to me the previous
government the transition government the
you know the opposition everyone was
just talking to me all the time saying
what's happening right and and I have to
admit in my mind I think the Arab Spring
seems to have been a glitch in the
system where where you know somehow
because Arabs at the time were so
offline if you want you gave them a tiny
bit of online
community and suddenly they go like this
is right and and they they organize
and they explode okay and I have to say
I you know I feel that leading after the
Arab Spring into 2019 2020 there were
there were start you could see quite a
bit of organized opposition around the
world Hong Kong here in the UK and so on
and so forth and it I I don't think that
this is the reason for Co I you know I'm
not into that conspiracy at all okay and
I know you wrote about you know the
covid economy if you want but it seems
to me that somehow governments found a
massive opportunity to say okay everyone
stay home right let's not organize in
the streets anymore no more Arab Spring
and you could actually recognize very
quickly that post
everyone's silent everyone's like yeah
what was that right and let's talk about
that era a little bit no conspiracy
theory here but but two things happened
with Co one is actually Society at large
was disciplined yes everyone was ordered
to sit home uh nobody had freedom to Ed
to do anything but at the same time
massive amounts of money were funneled
