into the system through printing money
basically more debt right uh and I think
that completely
shifted I think this was a you know the
one big nail in the coffin of Freedom if
you think about it what do you think of
that I think yeah that is a very
interesting and well thought through
analysis because you're right it's not
conspiratorial um to say that
governments in particular but also big
multinational corporations took
advantage AG of a crisis to strengthen
their position and you see this
happening over and over and over again
you know Naomi Klein um talks about the
shock Doctrine and disaster capitalism
the way in which the powerful are able
to take advantage of moments of Crisis
and uncertainty to embed and strengthen
their control uh one example that uh she
uses which I find really fascinating um
is the example of the tsunami um and the
crisis and Devastation that took place
in the Maldives and the way in which
that was used to remove people who had
been living on the islands in the
Maldives for a very very long time
settled them all in a very very small
area of the capital and ultimately sell
those islands off to big hotels so that
they would become centers for you know
luxury tourism basically now no you know
no one's saying the government caused
that natural disaster but they took
advantage of it to basically kind of uh
redistribute power and wealth within
that economy and I think that you can
say the same about the pandemic um and
that that takes place both within
individual societies and at the level of
the world economy now you mentioned
there um you know having uh been born in
the Middle East and been a businessman
in the Middle East for a while and that
that idea of debt as a disciplining tool
resonates with you
now you can see that at the level of
kind of individual consumers but you can
also see that at the level of whole
