states Nations at large of course so the
name for my book vulture capitalism
comes from um this uh vulture fund
basically which was just after the 2008
financial crisis Zambia which is a you
know relatively small African nation big
copper producer had nothing to do with
the financial crisis but because of the
collapse in world GDP after 2008
um copper prices fell its export
revenues kind of dried up and its debts
started to look unsustainable so there
was an Irish fund that bought Zambia's
debt knowing that Zambia was going to
default on that debt so that it could
sue the government of Zambia for failing
to pay its debts and take vast amounts
of money out of the pockets of ordinary
zambians and suck it back into the rich
world now this is the kind of what you
might call kind of law
it's like warfare using international
legal systems that you see all the time
in the world economy um and debt is a
very powerful tool for basically
crushing um entire nations and
particularly Nations where you're
beginning to see some resistance to the
Dynamics of global capitalism and I
think you're quite right that we did
start to see that in a really big way
before the pandemic I think part of the
reason for that was that we were moving
from a a unipolar world into a
multi-polar world now you know you can
say what whatever you want about the
Dynamics that underpin that but
ultimately when you have two
superpowers all the other countries in
the world's economy have a little bit
more leverage a little bit more room
basically because they're able to choose
exactly put them put them off against
each other before it was the Washington
consensus which is you know you follow
the rules laid out by Washington or you
don't get any money and you're kind of
ostracized for the world from the world
economy now these countries have more
than one uh superpower to pick from they
