can maybe go to China if they want
lending for infrastructure that's going
to come with a lot of strings attached
and a lot of problems but ultimately
there is this this choice now what you
see over the course of the pandemic is a
lot of Nations being really kind of
beaten down using the tool of debt uh
because um a lot of countries as soon as
the pandemic hit basically found
themselves unable to repay their debts
through no fault of their own the global
economy had been shut down you know the
factories that were using the resources
that they were exporting were no longer
operating suddenly they were unable to
pay their debts we had a debt moratorium
so a pause on debt repayments but the
the debts themselves kept increasing
because of of Interest exactly yeah um
and that has continued to this day
except for the fact that it's getting
worse because of climate breakdown so
you see you know natural disasters
Cyclones hurricanes we've just seen in
the Caribbean recently that caused
massive Devastation and Caribbean
Nations come forward and say you know we
as the International Community have
agreed that small island countries
countries at risk of desertification all
of these problems that going to come
from climate breakdown we shouldn't be
the only ones that have to bear the
burden yeah of climate breakdown so we
would like some of these debts that
we're going to have to take out to
reconstruct after this natural disaster
that we didn't cause that basically you
in the global North caused we're going
to ask for some Grace on that debt and
what they get is so tiny it's barely
enough to allow them to recover let
alone put in place the conditions for
sustainable long-term economic growth
it's again I I I will probably repeat
your sentence for a very long time it's
a it's a disciplinary instrument right
so so the idea of the fact that someone
can go to Zambia and take out literally
