imagine walking into a country and
taking $10 out of every citizen yes when
their income is $2 a month right uh you
know how evil is that when you really
think about it but that's not the issue
the issue is debt is used to discipline
a country so that they follow the agenda
and and become a peasant as a country
right and and I think the idea of how
the World Bank and the international
monetary fund you know and so on and the
IMF and so on basically used that
instrument in favor of Western agendas
uh you know it's un it's it's not it's
not a secret now I think in the last
year a lot more uh truth coming out
about how many decisions globally that
would benefit the entire world would be
vetoed because of Western interest
sometimes of because of a certain
nation's interest and basically that
those instruments then put the entire
country and its leaders Under Pressure
to comply yes right um the the thing
that kills me though and you repeated it
several times is
that Thatcher would then promise Freedom
yeah that Reagan would promise
Prosperity that you know uh the the IMF
would promise form MH that it's almost
consistent that what the promise is is
the opposite of the objective that that
you're walking in to sort of break down
unions and the the very very final bit
of Freedom that the worker has and
you're promising the the worker Freedom
it's it's very skillful the way they do
that and I think it comes back to what I
was saying at the beginning about how
alluring This Promise of freedom is and
the air of that promise comes from again
it's the American dream it's like sure
they're promising freedom and that
freedom is going to come with inequality
it means that we're going to have a
market basically some people are going
to rise to the top and some people are
going to fall to the bottom but we all
convince
ourselves I'm effective I'm talented I'm
