resourceful why should I not be able to
rise to the top and Achieve things and
and you know become a millionaire within
this system and within this economy and
I think in some ways it speaks to the
fact that we all know that we as
individuals and
groups have immense skills and
capabilities and talents that are
constantly being exploited by someone
else and taken advantage of by someone
else which by the way is the actual you
know definition of capitalism it's
basically you know everyone is a
commodity let's just buy them for the
for the lowest possible price to produce
use for the capitalist exactly yeah um
and because we we know that we know that
we have these talents and skills that
being exploited by someone else we're
sucked in by this idea that if all the
external stuff is taken out of the way
then we will rise to the top the problem
is is that the whole game is rigged you
know as I said there's this class of
people who are insulated from um from
markets basically because they're you
know in monopolies or they're working uh
within governments to kind of get their
own way um and then even you know within
this
hierarchy there's a brilliant statistic
from Oxfam that says that onethird of
billionaire wealth is inherited and
onethird of billionaire wealth comes
from crony connections to government so
basically 2third of billionaire wealth
comes from either inheritance or
corruption so the idea of the self-made
billionaire is just kind of absurd but
that other third it comes from
exploiting workers exploiting the
environment you know God knows the
Privileges that we afford to
billionaires because we basically say
well they have all the wealth we better
give them what they want and you know it
just it really brings home this point
that um the freedom that you're promised
is really the freedom to kind of be
