exploited unless you are one of those
very few lucky people who is basically
able to adopt a position at the top of
this hierarchy and sit around making
rules for everyone else um so and I
think um there's another Point here that
you mentioned earlier which was about
the implications of this for people's
understanding of their own masculinity
and identity right because if you buy
into this philosophy for understanding
the world which is that you know life is
a market there's a clear hierarchy the
capable ones go to the top and the
useless ones sink to the bottom but you
aren't aware of the fact that this game
is rigged that actually it's not the
good that get to the top it's the lucky
that get to the top and they stay at the
top or or or the the one of the team
basically if if you align with the team
at the top then you get to the top yeah
yeah um and people at the top never fall
down to the bottom yeah that's a key
thing about social Mobility it's not
just that those at the bottom are able
to go up if they're effective it should
also mean that if you're very wealthy
and capable and you fail that you should
fall to the bottom you shouldn't be
bailed do you ever see that happening
absolutely not so if you don't
understand that this game is rigged you
internalize those feelings of Shame and
powerlessness and you think I'm not a
millionaire so I must be worthless you
know I've been working really hard but
I'm not succeeding that must mean that I
am not intelligent that I'm not capable
um and you see I think particularly
among young men today where the idea of
masculinity is as you say tied to your
ability to provide to have a home to
have a good salary to feel secure to be
able to provide a sense of security and
you are unable to do that because we
live in an economy that kind of
manufactures
insecurity as a way of exploiting people
you feel like a failure and your
