response to that could be a number of
different things it could be that you
feel hopeless and depressed and that's
definitely something that we're seeing
with the rise of severe mental ill
health but it could also make you very
angry correct it can make you feel like
you want to burn the whole system down
like the only reason you're you're not
getting to the top is because there's
people in your way it's the women the
feminists or it's the migrants and the
refugees who are getting in your way
which we can see so much noise around
now exactly yeah so that response to
this competitive hierarchical
individualistic culture that we've
created makes us sick or it makes us
angry and it makes us sick and we've
just seen that with the riots that we've
had across this country and and of of
course that's playing to the agenda of
what is the design in the first place
it's like yeah let the let the you know
the Savages sort of you know mingle
among themselves and fight and disagree
and you know and and and comment badly
on each other's social media posts let
them not never get together and say it's
the whole game design that's working
against me fascinating what do we
do I'm glad you asked um I think you're
exactly right the this Division and this
individualism plays into the agenda that
we're we're kind of all playing under
because The Narrative of those at the
top is ordinary people are too stupid or
too selfish to be trusted with any real
political power we have to have all the
power up here because if we really had a
democratic economy if we gave workers
power in their workplaces if we gave
communities power then they would abuse
it and what's the evidence for this well
it's people's response to living in a
competitive individualistic Society
where they're encouraged to fight one
another and they do fight one another
and then because they're fight they're
fighting one another those are the top
