say you don't deserve power you have to
be controlled and policed right and
actually there is another way so
throughout history across time across
space there are constant examples of
people coming together doing that thing
that I mentioned earlier of recognizing
that they have these skills and
capabilities that are being exploited by
someone else but instead of trying to
use those skills to compete against each
other they pull their capabilities and
they come together and they cooperate
and they build movements or institutions
or organizations that become really
powerful and
influential um and the example I like to
use because I think it's a really good
contrast with the example of Boeing is
the example of the Lucas plan in the UK
now you might not have heard of this
this was Lucas Aerospace was an
aerospace company in the UK in the 1970s
um and it came into all sorts of
difficulties because Rising competition
from abroad the workers were unionized
they were paid higher wages so it wasn't
competitive and they the the workers uh
went to the labor government at the time
and said we need you to nationalize us
because you know otherwise the firm's
going to go under and we're going to all
lose our jobs but Tony Ben who is my
personal political hero a Democratic
Socialist um replied to the workers why
don't you come up with a plan as to how
you can save this Corporation and so the
unionists went back to the workers and
initially they tried to ask all sorts of
experts and academics how they could
design a plan to transform this company
that didn't work very well so instead
they asked all the workers in in the
company you know all of these Engineers
all of these you know people in in
various different positions throughout
the company to provide ideas as to how
they could change it and what they put
together became known as the Lucas plan
and these workers had basically taken
