stock of the resources within the firm
and they had said rather than producing
weapons which is what they were
producing at the time they said we can
use this organization to produce
socially useful technology
that will be of benefit to society so
things like wind turbines Healthcare
Tech kidney dialysis machines this was
in the 1970s so it's very forward
thinking and here's a plan as to how we
can get there they were saying there's
layers of management that are telling us
how to do our jobs and what to do we
don't really need that we can work
together and manage ourselves we can
have a democratic publicly owned company
where um you know there are worker
representatives making decisions where
there's you know political
representation societal representation
so that we can have this company that
produces socially useful Technologies
and this plan was greeted by everyone as
this amazing thing you know all of the
everyone on the left was like this is
brilliant but even like the financial
times was like wow this is a really
powerful document we had no idea that
workers had so many ideas so many
capabilities so many resources that they
could use in imagining a different kind
of world and it a kind of lightning rod
for activists everywhere ultimately the
guy who um LED spearheaded these efforts
Mike Coley was fired for his Union
activity um and he ended up going to
work at the GLC the greater London
corporation which I was talking about
earlier and he was put in charge of
their kind of Community Technology
Outreach and this was a mechanism for
bringing together businesses Community
organizers and local government to say
what technologies can we develop that
will help your community that will help
your business how can we kind of create
a supportive environment for you to be
able to live better lives basically and
using the power of local government to
