be able to do that now Thatcher crushed
the unions and uh Lucas went under
Thatcher crushed the GLC and the JC went
under and what I think is really
fascinating is the Lucas era space
shutdown it was carved up in the
shareholder value revolution of the
1980s turned you know sold from one
company to another to another and part
lots of what was once Lucas Aerospace
end up ended up being purchased by a
corporation that produced the faulty
sensors that went into the Boeing 737
Max planes that crashed killing all of
those people and I think that provides
us a very clear indication of the choice
that we have in terms of the kind of
economy that we create on the one hand
we have workers coming together to
produce socially useful technologies
that are of benefit to Society on the
other hand we have a massive
monopolistic Corporation working with an
imperial government to produce planes
that fall out of the sky
wow
wow you know it's it fascinates me
because again if you would look at e
East and
West the way we create barriers between
people to work together while saying
that this is for their benefit is
really really what's killing everyone
yeah I mean in a very interesting way
when you know when when the 2008 crisis
hit the world my home country my you
know where I was born Egypt was
unaffected because we didn't have any
debt instruments at all you know it
wasn't it wasn't part of the economy for
us to borrow to buy anything right we
borrowed from friends when we needed
money we borrowed from family members
and then paid back and so on and so the
crisis hits were unaffected right when
when the you know when you think of the
evolution of how the Egyptian Society
for many many years we didn't have
pensions we didn't have health care we
didn't have anything right but we had a
