community and the community was
basically saying if my cousin is in
trouble I'll help them out there is no
need for insurance for that because my
cousin will help me out if I'm in
trouble okay and I see more and more now
as I go to Egypt that this is
disappearing that de is everywhere right
that that everyone is now going trying
to say it's
externalize the dependencies outside the
community to others yes and that
basically is the beginning of where
everyone is as as we are so what you're
saying is the answer to all of this is
don't count on the government don't
count on the capitalist system connect
and create a community so that you as
the people actually govern your own life
exactly I will end it here
I think this uh I admire your thinking I
think you're fascinating I think you're
really on a very important Mission and I
really support what you're doing so
grateful that you came it's been such a
pleasure talking with you it's been
really fantastic thank you for
everything you do yeah for all of you
listening I am so grateful for the
opportunity as I always say to speak to
amazing people because of you uh this is
my episode before last uh on before I
take a break on slow-mo I will leave the
entire body of work for you to revisit
uh with so many incredible speakers and
so many incredible thinkers uh so so you
have 320 episodes to go back and listen
to uh meanwhile I think this
message truly is probably the core of
what slow-mo is all about okay that what
we need as people is to realize that
most of the time what we're told is not
for our benefit it's for our belief so
that the benefit of someone else is
delivered and that the true benefit uh
is for us to organize together the true
benefit if we wanted to create the world
that we want is to create it ourselves
is to stop playing to the narratives and
actually connect to others I love you
