you don't know worldcat is a massive
catalog of Library materials and
libraries all over the globe and it's
run by a company called
oclc now I'm not going to get into the
problems inherent with occl in modern
libraries because we don't have the time
and they only allowed me a shot and not
the entire
bottle I but I will tell you that if you
want to see if you can find something in
a library somewhere your first stop is
worldcat.org so start there
and using worldcat I found a copy one
single copy and do you know where it was
no surprises Greater Victoria Public
Library in beautiful British
Columbia
so uh yeah we were able to uh you know
on mdon we were able to work with each
other and uh you know a little back and
forth we found a Victorian local who
literally lived down the street from
this library now this is a rare piece of
media but you could check it out and
they did and they ripped us a beautiful
digital copy including the
soundtrack um so you know and they
provided for this person who was doing
everything they could to obtain it
legally so there was this guy I'm sure
you've not heard of him because there's
Librarians that might never heard of him
his name was ranganath
I'm probably pronouncing that wrong he
wrote down the Five Laws of Library
science these are still pretty good
today and as you can see the third law
is every book its reader or in this case
every DVD its viewer So within a few
days a long lost movie had been
reobtained and nowadays strangely enough
you can view it on the internet archive
funny how that
happened okay circling back let's go
back to that student who needed the
article that their Library didn't have
access to now there's something that you
need to understand about libraries and
Librarians and that it's kind of an
insular world we know lots of other
Librarians and you know what Librarians
love to do they love to talk to other
Librarians um so okay fine but what does
that mean for the student well we've got
a stat request for this article they
need this the paper's due next week and
oh my God okay well even back in the day
before you know all the cool internet
stuff and things a good inter a good
inter Library loan librarian which is
hard to say could turn this request
around in hours if not minutes cuz yes
there is a formal process that you have
to go through to request an interner
Library loan which you can totally do
after you've made a phone call to your
friend at the other Library way over
there and said hey I got a student that
needs this thing can you give a copy of
it and send it yeah I'll check my email
later I'll send you over the request
later this afternoon thanks
bye now while I'm not an inter Library
loan coordinator anymore um I have
worked as an intern Library loan
coordinator over the course of my career
I've been I've actually done it for
three separate times I've been on both
sides of that
conversation
so these days like I said I work inter
Library loan as a shadow librarian what
that means is literally I'll I'll watch
Reddit I'll watch Discord or you know
chat room whatever and someone needs a
PDF they don't have access to that PDF
and maybe I do and suddenly they have
access to that PDF it's very
simple
um but to uh kind of kind of move Beyond
even that if you listen to podcasts or
uh watch YouTube videos which I bet some
of you do um you will hear someone
occasionally say something along the
lines of I'm a lawyer but I'm not your
lawyer or I'm a therapist but I'm not
your
therapist Librarians are different in a
capitalistic Society the public library
remains one of the few places where you
can go and be there and exist in a
location and no one expects you to pay
for
it I am I take pride in being part of a
rare organization that can literally say
hi I'm from the government and I'm here
to help and people don't laugh at
me I said people don't laugh at
me but uh the funny thing about
Librarians we'll teach you how to do our
job we'll show you how to do what we do
and in essence we kind of cut ourselves
out of the uh out of the process and
it's not that we don't want to lose you
as a patron uh but because we believe in
education okay um
and even then we'll we'll always be
there to back you up we don't expect you
to be experts um so if you're having
trouble using the library you can't find
something well hey we are still there
and it doesn't matter if you're standing
in a brick-and mortar Library it doesn't
matter if you're chatting to a librarian
online or trying to find something on
Mastadon Discord Reddit whatever so let
present me help future
you like Liam niss have a particular set
of
skills because I can offer guidance and
assistance from a public librarian's
point of view and from a shadow
librarian standpoint as well so just a
few things to consider if you ever need
to go researching
something and you need in-depth
information beyond what a search engine
can
provide first don't discount your public
library and I'm not saying that because
I want you to support your library folks
your tax is paid for the library you're
supporting the library you may as well
go use it it's one of the few places
where you can go use the things you paid
for you paid for the cop cars go drive
one see how it
works but there is one thing that shadow
libraries suck at they're just not good
at it at all and I love Shadow libraries
um and that thing is
browsing Serendipity is is a hell of a
discovery Tool uh for example I write
ghost stories I have a podcast called
am800 wrth and it's like a Night Gallery
thing in that this fictional AM radio
station provides a delivery mechanism
for the ghost story um so yeah just the
same way that the gallery did for the
spooky TV story so I popped into the uh
Warren County Public Library in Bowling
Green Kentucky because I wanted to find
some ghost stories that I could you know
have as maybe some something you know
I'm not plagiarizing I just need ideas
damn it and my father's side of the
family is from Appalachia which now that
you've heard me talk for a little while
might not surprise you and that is a
culture with a wonderful richness of
ghost stories and I figured hey I could
find something along those lines and I
sure did that was easy I mean
133 That's The Dewy Decimal number for
specific topics in the Paranormal
parapsychological and occultism
uh I didn't even use the libraries
catalog because I'm a professional damn
it so I go straight to the shelf and I'm
standing there with a couple of you know
couple of shelves of you know ghost
stories and that's when I noticed
something wow this one guy uh William
lywood Montel okay um he's got a hell of
a lot of books here um right here in
this section uh most all of them are
about paranormal stories and incidents
in the state of Kentucky what's that
about well you know what else is in
Bowling Green Kentucky Western Kentucky
University and if you know anything
about the Paranormal you might know that
John Carpenter went to Western Kentucky
University his father was a professor at
Western Kentucky University and so was
Dr William Lynwood
Montel um this was a man that was
involved in editing writing publishing
about 28 books he was a folklorist he
