uh welcome thank you all for coming to
the track uh the next speaker up is
Daniel misser and the talk is a shadow
librarian in broad daylight uh please
give Daniel a warm
welcome
than how youall
doing okay so good afternoon thank you
for coming there's a whole lot of you
here to see a librarian talk at deathcon
so um it's nice to have you so uh to
start off with quick disclaimer you know
big disclaimer uh hi I'm not a hacker I
am not a cyber security expert I will
not be talking about how I crack some
passwords that I found on the dark web
and use that to infiltrate some system I
won't be talking about that cuz that's
nothing I have ever
done um but I think that you and I and
all of you and maybe I uh we share kind
of a kindred
relationship um because though I am not
a I'm not a hacker I think we can both
uh we can come together on a
relationship based in fear because
people fear hackers you know this some
of you Revel in this and people are
starting to fear others like me too in
red States from City councils to state
capitals uh I am a threat and so are
people like me more legislation has been
passed in the last few months to uh
curtail my activities than have been
passed to curtail yours because I am
 dangerous I am a public
librarian in the 3dr century before the
Common Era there was a great library in
the city of Alexandria Egypt many tales
have been told about this library and
some of them
are even true one thing that isn't
talked about as often as I think it
should be is the alexandrian
Acquisitions Department yeah I know I
know thrilling stuff mesami but Hang on
we're going to go someplace Beyond an
ancient Library okay see there was a
decree by Tommy II philadelphus that
among other things ordered agents of the
library
to to search the ships and take any
books that they found borrow them now
we're talking about the city of
Alexandria this is one of the biggest
centers of trade in human history we're
talking about a lot of ships these
agents would snag any books and then
bring them back to the library where
they would be copied and added to the
collection and it was often the case
that the ships would sail away with the
copies and while the library kept the
originals um this was the first large
scale version of a modern adage and that
information should be free and it should
belong to
me in the year of our goddess
20124 can you imagine a library doing
anything like that
today that Library would have more
lawyers at their front door than they
have children attending the
herpetologist event at a summer reading
program so okay yeah maybe uh maybe some
introductions before I really get into
this hi I'm Dan
uh I've been working libraries for
almost 30 years now uh from the front
desk to systems Administration and a few
stops in between yeah as a systems
librarian I specialize in integrated
Library systems which is the daytoday
operating system of a modern library
checking the things out checking the
things in managing the catalog all that
stuff
um so what I'm called is a systems
librarian by most people if you um
I'm also into things like uh SQL hacking
I say that I'm a SQL hacker because uh
the way I typically get SQL to work is
that I write a query I swear because it
doesn't work then I rewrite the query
and I'm closer but they're still
swearing and finally the query works so
I yeah that's how I hack
SQL I'm also into Data analysis and
storytelling libraries love data the
sort of running joke is is that
Librarians are into stats and cats um so
yeah I'm in I'm one of the data guys
where I work no surprise I'm into
Library technology self checkout
machines self checkin machines
everything from the barcode on the front
desk to the RFID tags within the
items and this probably doesn't matter
to anyone I'm circulation methodologist
in other words I can help libraries
better circulate their
materials
but one one thing um one thing that you
might also know me for is if you listen
to library related podcast I am known as
your little free cyberpunk librarian and
with a name like that it shouldn't
become shouldn't be a real big surprise
that I am into Shadow libraries um I
have been researching Shadow libraries
for about 10 years I can't be uh I can't
be uh specific on that cuz I don't
remember exactly when I started
approaching it as a topic of research
rather than as a topic of
usage um so yeah I've done this for
about 10 years I've worked in Shadow
libraries as a cataloger in other words
if I am presented with an ebook of
questionable sources um and that ebook
is lacking metadata I can help provide
that
metadata I've also worked in inter
Library loan which uh in this case
usually involves someone on the internet
needs a PDF and I can provide that
PDF but I've also done work in
Acquisitions AKA book scanning
digitization things like that and I've
also done some systems uh systems
Administration and development so okay
here's the deal
as a public librarian and a shadow
librarian I work in two sides of the
library world the public library which
I'm sure many of you are familiar with
and Shadow
libraries which I'm sure many of you are
familiar with
um so that might come as a surprise to
you because why would why would a legit
librarian go to the dark side you know
why why would I do that well you can
Encompass a lot of that under a heading
of you do what you got to
do I'm here to serve the public in
matters of information and media and to
a librarian everything is Media this
Podium this Podium I'm speaking from
Librarians can totally catalog and
circulate this thing uh we we actually
have a word for it it's called realia
This is a realistic thing it's not a
book it's not a you know a piece of like
a Blu-ray or anything like that this is
realia we can circulate this
stuff see if you haven't been to your
local public library recently I strongly
encourage you to go the reasons for that
are stuff that you probably already know
but I'll drop the two biggest ones just
in case you need a reminder number one
we lend you stuff for free and uh with
that that could include stuff that uh
you didn't you may not associate with
public libraries which is the number two
reason you should go to the library and
see see what they have if you think
we're just a stronghold of books and
Blu-rays you might give it another look
just in case so um for instance I work
with libraries all across the country
and some of them have tool Collections
and I'm not talking about the band um if
you're uh if you're putting something
together and maybe you need a hammer or
a cordless drill or something like that
but you're not a handy person you're not
Norm Abram so you don't want to just buy
this you're just assembling something
that you bought at Ikea check check with
your local library they uh they might
have a tool collection for you um do you
want to learn how to play the guitar
some libraries have musical instrument
collections so this is great because you
can go lend they can that you can borrow
that guitar and you don't have to buy
one because later on if you find out
well playing the guitar isn't for me or
