sounds reasonable what do you think your
University is paying for access to those
academic journals got that number no
you're wrong it's
higher the the cost of academic journals
and access to those Publications is
insane and it's obscene and never mind
that many of the articles that these
students are after were written by
researchers and scientists working with
public
funds so if you're a student browsing a
database of Publications at your uni
library and you find what you need I
holy crap here it is this this is what
I'm looking for I know this author
they're working in my Arena this will go
a long way to help helping me finish my
Master's thesis or my doctoral
dissertation
fantastic
and they don't have it this is the
Heartbreak of the abstract where all
they have is the abstract your library
for some reason just does not have
access to that
article
so imagine yourself now as a librarian
you've got that Patron looking for a
book that's had one print run and hasn't
been published again since the 1970s
you've got a patron who needs an indie
film that was made in 1990 and can't be
found anywhere or you've got this
student who needs the article but you
don't have
it when I was in high school never mind
how many years ago a friend of mine
taught me something that literally stuck
with me ever since I could put this on a
business card and it would make some
sense for me and that thing is is when
what you need don't meet your eyes you
must learn to impr
improvise so time to
improvise due to Patron confidentiality
I will not divulge the title of this
book except to say it was a work of
fiction written in the 1970s by some
author I had never heard of the patron
read this book back in their younger
days and like a fever dream it popped
into their head again and they just they
needed to read it again and hey I get it
I don't know about you but as a
librarian there's certain books that I
always go back to I can cannot tell you
how many times I've read Neuromancer and
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the
Galaxy it's like comfort
food now libraries have various networks
that they can go through to do something
magical and that magical thing is
interlibrary loan and if you're not
familiar with it no shame today you are
one of today's lucky
10,000 so let me tell you about inter
life Library loan see if you go to a
library and they don't have the thing
you need you can talk to someone there
and they can try to get it from another
Library maybe even in a completely
different state sometimes in a
completely different country you may
have to pay for shipping but they can
help you get that weird and wonderful
thing that cannot be found anywhere else
and that's exactly what I did I you know
worked with this Patron I looked it up
in the computer we placed a request
through an inter Library loan Network
and we waited for the item to arrive
which it did it just the next week in
pieces it's a
paperback from the 1970s do you know
what they used to make binding glue out
of in the 1970s lysergic acid
diethylamide and the dreams of small
children I called this Patron and I said
hey um I got your thing but there's this
problem and they were heartbroken it's
one of my favorite patrons they were
afraid to check it out because they
didn't want to further damage that I
don't know how they would have done that
other than sticking it in a blender with
some protein powder um but damn it I
hated to disappoint this person and the
lending library that responded was the
only lending library that responded it
was either this copy or nothing time for
the
lie this Patron I'll call him Joe I'm
talking to him on the phone I said Hey
Joe do you have an e-reader you do
that's awesome hey what kind of e-reader
you got uhhuh that new Kindle yeah right
how do you like it nice okay so here's
what we're going to do I'm going to I'm
going to check in a different IL system
real quick this one deals in digital
copies and no no Joe I know you already
look but I'm a librarian let me do my
job and oh my God Joe check it out I
found it it's right here no this one
Library they've got it um I need to
contact them to see uh See what I need
to do to borrow it but I'll give you a
call back in a couple days okay talk to
you later Joe bye beloved did you know
you can scan a paperback in about 30
minutes uh I took the book
home and this was before I got a proper
book scanner I have tools now but I just
had at the time a you know regular
run-of-the-mill pretty decent flatbed
scanner and it was great cuz you could
easily fit the pages on the glass uh you
know the glass part of the scanner and
push what was left of the binding up
against the uh you know up against the
thing got some good pages and you know I
throw on a podcast and about half an
hour later I had a bunch of images of
pages which I could feed to scant Taylor
a bit of software that I think the
internet archive still uses for um
ingesting ocing and converting images of
pages into actual ebooks um it's not
pretty but it works uh well and then
then after done while this Patron has a
Kindle so obviously I needed to use
caliber to convert it to Mobi format and
two days later I gave him a copy of a
favorite book that he had not read in 30
years
okay thank you thank you you're far too
kind all right this is one of my
favorite stories of all time I'll be
telling this until I die uh and this
worked because of people like what I'm
looking at at here at
Devcon in the 1990s a bunch of punks
made a movie and I mean that literally I
want to tell you a story about terminal
City
Ricochet this is the one this is one of
the most independent of indie films it's
a punk Croc counterculture cyber Punk
cult
Masterpiece starring well featuring
Jello Biafra of the dead kennedies and
Joe Keithley of
DOA so uh there was this uh there was
this person I mean well let me back up
so why is this why is this thing hard to
find um so this this uh this movie was
made in Sunny British Columbia which is
not
Hollywood um it has a soundtrack with
some raging Canadian punk bands and as I
said in 2023 late 2023 was almost
entirely unobtainable I mean they
probably printed you know just a few
DVDs and VHS cassettes and probably sold
them through their friends and
independent shops and stuff like that so
they're just strewn to the Four Winds
you could not even find it on eBay and
you can't pirate it because if you want
to Pirate something you need to kind of
have a copy of it so one day on Mastadon
someone started asking around about this
movie and they wanted to get a copy of
it and that was proven to be difficult
if not impossible so by the way I don't
know if he's here but big shout out to
the Gibson for hosting and putting up
with all the insanity that is the
hackers. toown Mastadon server um you
know awesome awesome work there and
that's what facilitated this whole thing
this user had checked out some libraries
and they couldn't find it and someone
just popped up I didn't even know who
this person was popped up and said hey
if you asked cyberpunk librarian he
might know a way to get it so they
checked a bunch of libraries they had
not however checked World Cat now now if
