I'm just not good at that well if you
bought a guitar now you have a symbol of
your failure laying around your house
with the with the borrowed guitar you
just take it back to the
library
so I work with the library that has a
massive collection of cake pans
literally lots of cake pans and you
might think cake pans well how often do
you need to make a Hello Kitty birthday
cake maybe once a year so why should you
buy a Hello Kitty shaped cake pan for
the other 364 days just go borrow the
thing so podiums right I'm just saying
sometimes people need to talk in front
of a
crowd and uh you know what they might
not have Podium it's not something you
got laying around your house most of the
time a library could buy catalog and
circulate one of these things I would
not be surprised if that's something
that's already happening in a library
somewhere so as I said I am here to
serve the public about information in
media and sometimes that stuff doesn't
come easy at one point in your life you
may have gone to a library for a story
time um so you have your very own
librarian right here so let's have a
story time sit back relax I'm going to
tell you a couple of stories because
it's the War Stories track right um I
was going to bring puppets but when I
explained to the Defcon organizers what
I wanted to do with them they shot that
idea down for ethical reasons
so once upon a time there was a law
it's a pretty good law as laws go and
its name was title 17 United States code
subsection
109a thank you big fans
anyway uh this little bit of legislation
does us the small service of providing
only the entire Foundation of how
libraries operate in the United States
but please title 17 United States code
subsection 109a that's a very long name
very complicated so it's got a nickname
it's called the first sale
Doctrine simply stated this law allows
libraries to buy physical items and lend
them we can lend books Blu-rays and
banjos uh because when we buy them we
own them and because we own them we can
decide to lend them to
others so more than one person has said
that if a a library didn't exist today
it would probably be illegal to create
one and that's because media publishers
would never let a law like this pass if
this was something that came forward
today so this law is great though when
it comes to physical
items what about the digital stuff so
hey you might not have known this either
if you haven't been to the library for a
little while uh did you know you can
check out stuff at the library and never
leave your home you can get things from
ebooks and digital Comics you can stream
music and movies uh you can download
magazines and read the news you don't
even have to put on pants just get your
tablet get your phone log into your
library account and get stuff for
free legally for a
change and that dear
Hearts that's the
problem digital items are not sold
they're licensed and Licensing does not
equal
ownership and libraries all across the
country are seeing a steep rise in their
Public's desire for digital items okay
well so what well how much do you pay
for an ebook on Amazon maybe about 15
bucks or so give or take you know if
it's new or it's big or whatever say
about 15 bucks and keep in mind you are
licensing it too you don't own that
um but you are just a single licensee
reading the book on your devices fine
libraries on the other hand we want to
lend ebooks to multiple people so they
can read it on multiple devices and
Publishers they don't like that they
absolutely see that as lost sales do you
know how much a library will pay for the
same ebook that you bought on Amazon for
15
bucks 60 they will pay about four times
the cost so that you can have access to
an
ebook and that's for a single user
license well what the hell is a single
user license a single user license
basically says that one person can check
out that ebook at a time just like a
physical
book it's an ebook and it's not like we
have a problem making copies of it but
the licensing is that one person can
have that book at a
time so more than that Publishers will
also literally withhold sales to to
libraries um because they want to hit
that buyer Market first the new you know
James Patterson pulls a lever and
publishes a novel and the the publisher
might not offer that as a eBook to
libraries because they want to hit that
buyer's market first those freeloading
Librarians can just wait to pay four
times the amount for that
ebook because you know the publishing
industry got to get paid
son oh and by the way that license is
good for anywhere from a few months to
maybe a couple years and then the
library has to license the book
again why did it wear
out actually that's the story The
Publishers uh and the sellers will tell
you that a physical book will wear out
over time so you're going to need to
replace it so that's all we're doing
we're just emulating what's happening in
the physical book that's okay right
beloved there are books in libraries
that are over 200 years
old travel to Europe there are books in
libraries that are centuries
old um yeah you might not be able to
check them out and take them home
granted but I bet they're still somehow
available for use
there's not an ebook around right now
that is even half as old as some of the
oldest books in in a library in other
words this is just good oldfashioned bog
standard capitalism at work you you've
heard of forced scarcity I'm sure this
is enforced scarcity we live in a time
where nothing nothing ever needs to go
out of print and even things that have
gone out of print they could be
digitized resurrected and brought
forward and you know Google did that and
they got away with it because they're
Google and then the internet archive did
that got sued and had to remove 500,000
books from their
collection um because of course of
course that represents a loss of sales
as a Counterpoint according to
Publishers Weekly and the association of
American Publishers the United States
publishing industry made over 12.5
billion dollars last year we should all
have some of those lost
sales how did they
survive and with the growing demand for
ebooks Library budgets are feeling that
pinch more than ever because ebook
licenses are more or less twice the
price of a physical book a new dead tree
book might cost 20 25 bucks a library
could buy two books for 50 bucks or they
can buy one single ebook license for $10
more more I mean fiscally those physical
items make more sense but that's not
what people are
after and beyond that though what do you
do when you're faced with a patron who
needs an item but that item is almost
unobtainable because ay my God we
haven't even talked about things like
the price of journals like academic
journals any students here today anyone
working on a bachelor's a master's maybe
even a doctorate I got I got a few hands
awesome okay so do you know how much
money your College library spends per
year for access to academic articles and
Publications I want you to think of a
number a price that sounds reasonable
let's not get you know cosmically
stratospheric here but a price that
