it when it arrives uh one small thing to
mention perhaps if this if this really
matters for for you more the listeners
of this podcast would be uh I did
mention Professor Johnson that um I I'm
hoping to start a book club uh next year
um I've already been in contact with the
few listeners but eventually we will
open it up to the public and one book uh
we are hoping to study deeply is
Professor Johnson's book uh adventures
in transcendental
materialism which uh I haven't read the
whole book I've skim through it but
after having read you know JX onology uh
a new German idealism and then even um
Professor Johnson's essay in this book
uh this collection uh J response I I
can't wait to get into um especially
because he did mention that he just
flesh out his disagreement with J Appo
quantum mechanics I don't want to
prolong this introduction too much but
my overall point being primarily in this
podcast I wanted to focus on Professor
Johnston's ontology his materialist
ontology that he puts forward uh and not
particularly on Mor scholarly work on
laon and psychoanalysis but that
certainly is a whole other area which
he's written on extensively um now for a
bit of a formal introduction as I tend
to do Professor Adrian Johnson is a
distinguished professor in the
department of philosophy at the
University of New Mexico at Albuquerque
and a faculty member at the Emory
psychoanalytic Institute in Atlanta he's
the author of numerous books including J
anology new German idealism the POA to
any future materialism Trilogy and
recently infinite greed Professor
Johnson is in continuous dialogue with
his fellow Travelers slavo alanka zanik
Katherine malabu Tom McGavin and others
in the Contemporary hegelian lenan the
scene while also bringing into the
discourse the developments within
analytic philosophy and the Natural
Sciences that being said without further
Ado here's my conversation with
Professor Aran Johnston as I said before
uh before we start our recording thank
you very much for your time it's truly
an honor um I I guess I'd start off with
a very broad question which you probably
have been asked uh in previous
interviews before uh in in a
conversation you had with Daniel tot who
is also another think I deeply admire uh
he he he said this and I think even
Katherine malabu I've seen her say this
too that you've been you've been vital
and or pivotal in Bridging the Gap
between soall uh analytic and carnal
philosophy and you know as a neop
reading your work I've always felt this
too um and I'm wondering if you could if
you firstly do you agree with this this
is Claim about yourself but also if you
do uh how do you think you've done uh in
your work this this this bridging
between um analytic and carnal
philosopher philosophy and then what has
your Mo been in in doing
so so I should start by saying I'm very
comfortable with being characterized
thusly um this is in part reflective of
the fact that uh you know my my father
was actually trained as an analytic
philosopher and so you know from
childhood onward I had uh regular
conversations with someone about these
issues who was coming out of uh a a you
know a strictly analytic background my
father's dissertation was on Quin you
know specifically quin's two dogmas of
empiricism and its implications for
practical Philosophy for ethics Etc um
and you know my interest in things like
the Mind Body problem
materialism uh you know theories of
subjectivity Etc uh definitely have some
of their Origins uh in you know that
aspect of my upbringing so that's you
know one factor and funnily enough when
I was originally hired by the University
of New Mexico uh and it's been gosh it's
been longer than I realized this was uh
in 2006 when I joined the Department the
