domesticated um you know field of
constituted entities and events um that
is organized in a lawful fashion that is
intelligible for us you know as knowing
subjects um that we are able to
cognitively map you know get our
bearings in relation to Etc but that
this entire domain that we inhabit of
this intelligible reality that shelling
calls existence um arises from and sit
the top this more foundational
underlying ontological basis that
shelling calls ground and that this
ground for the middle and late period
shelling is not a you know calm
organized lawful rule
governed um uh uh you know second
reality it is Instead This unruly
conflict ridden anarchic it's kind of
like this primordial chaos almost um and
then for
what you know we take to be instances of
effective human freedom in our
constituted reality of existence are for
shelling returns of the repressed ground
it's as though the impersonal Anonymous
uh unruly basis of all being um returns
in this you know uh uh you know a
localized fashion in and through human
subjects and that my own subjectivity in
terms of when I am free and in those
instances in which I am I can be said to
be acting autonomously that what is
happening is is in and through me this
ground is in a sense intruding into the
domain of existence it's a moment at
which that underlying ontological
unruliness breaks through the congealed
crust of existence and and makes itself
felt again um and perturbs that field of
existence now from within um but of
course you know in my view I don't you
know there's it almost seems a bit like
shelling is cheating and I call this a
donut model because although Hegel is
usually seen as being guilty of of uh of
privileging you know the idea of
circularity or this you know this notion
of you know coming back to where you
started uh uh Etc that it's really with
shelling that you get this model where
it's that all right ground gives rise to
the various emergent levels and layers
of existence and then at the kind of
highest level of emergence uh at the
level of existence namely our subjective
autonomy that that you know highest
point is just the return of the of the
lowest you know uh basis um so it's as
though we in fact just go through you
know a series of layers arranged in a
donut shape and then when we get to the
highest emergent layer we've closed the
circle and rejoined you know the lowest
point so you know the highest point of
the emergent levels of existence is the
return of the ultimate underlying ground
and so it's this you know layered
circular you know donut shape kind of
that you get with shelling um you know
whereas you know I argue with Hegel if
you look especially at hegel's
philosophy of Nature and then his
account of the emergence of human-
mindedness out of nature in you know the
volumes two and three of his
encyclopedia um that you you know it's
not that for him you know the various
aspects of what we associate with Guist
you know you know Spirit mind you know
in in its various you know forms
associated with our subjectivity that
for heel is not just you know in a sense
the Resurgence of something you know
from the most primitive you know
metaphysical basis of existence that
then
reints within an a constituted field of
natural and human reality and its you
know in all of its particular features
um that no that there's you know
something rubly distinct and new about
human Freedom rather than it being just
in a sense tapping back into what is
oldest and most archaic and then xek
when he you know engages with quantum
physics um in a way that's influenced by
shelling um it's no accident that you
know xak flirts with this idea that in a
way it that you know his idea of the aut
