um kind of kind of puts forward this
idea of ontological incompleteness which
is also something that I'm fully fully
drawn towards um so I I I was trying to
prepare for this conversation and I I
Read's book on freedom uh a couple of
months then I I there's one one part
here if you don't mind if I could just
read it out he he says in the book uh
Freedom a disase without kill uh being
involved in a decades long debate with
Adan Johnston I gladly accept his
designation of difference as one between
layer cake and donut in your ontology
yes and then you also did write a write
a little have a bit of a debate with him
in this H book J response which is an
excellent yes read uh read
to this debate between uh cake and
donut so if you could take as as as much
time as you need for this because I find
it fascinating and kind of try to
outline these ontological differences
between the dut model and the the cake
layer cake model between yourself and Ja
yes well I should say that with with
with xek so starting in 1996 in that
year he he brings out um his book The
indivisible remainder an essay on
shelling and related matters and one of
the you know striking and novel features
of that particular work from the mid1
1990s is that this was the first time
the initial occasion when um when xek uh
uh attempted to uh use his at that point
primarily his combination of German
idealism with lukan and in this case
more more precisely uh sort of lanan
eyes shelling to engage with quantum
physics um and so this this gesture of
taking recourse to Quantum Physics for
fleshing out a particular particular
sort of materialism that would involve
this this idea of ontological
incompleteness Etc um this is really the
first place where you see X do that um
and then more recently um it's as though
that project from the indivisible
remainder has over the course of the
past I'd
say probably about 15 years of returned
with a Vengeance in his uh in his you
know more recent work where you know he
Now talks about his his version
dialectical materialism as essentially
involving this particular hybrid German
idealist leanian manner of engaging with
quantum physics for instance you know
his 2020 book sex in the failed absolute
um is his I think most recent sustained
presentation of that and in fact right
now he's back to working on quantum
physics again and has been in
conversation with a number of you know
eminent figures in that field and it's
very yeah yes that's right and
so yeah he's in the middle of working on
all of that right now um but uh one
aspect of of the cake versus donut model
that you're talking about have to do
with how in debating with him about some
of these issues one of the things that I
did is go back to shelling himself um
and you know looking at uh you know
shellings philosophy of Nature and and
related aspects of shellings
larger for lack of a better word
metaphysics um that you know it became
very clear to me that with shelling
shing's account of of autonomous
subjectivity of of you know the subject
in its fullest Freedom um as concerns
xek that shelling makes clear that for
him what this is a matter of is so
shelling and this is you know this is
material crucial to X's version of
shelling the middle period shelling
starting with shing's 1809 fly height
schift his essay on human freedom and
running through the ages of the world up
to around 1815 or thereabouts that this
middle period shelling especially is
dear to xek and this shelling has this
distinction that xek uses again and
again between ground GL and existence
existence um and this ground existence
distinction you know for shelling the
ideas is that what we ordinarily take to
be reality is what he calls existence
which is this tamed and
