person who has no idea what uh
transcendental materialism is and we
we'll go from there because I kind of
want to explore uh once you flush it out
I kind of want to discuss how it differs
from let's say kind of reject ontology
or if it differs at all
yes well I should say that to begin with
the origin of the very phrase
transcendental materialism traces back
to that 2008 book xiet anology that you
just mentioned right um and um it uh I I
ended up uh uh resorting to this
particular phrase to at the time try and
characterize
X's own
core philosophical position with with
this l
uh you know given that you know on the
one hand xek repeatedly from you know
some of his earliest work onward makes
clear that he is interested in
establishing a materialist ontology and
that more in in the past 10 to 15 years
you know he's tended to even associate
that with you know despite the
problematic stalinist connotations with
the phrase dialectical materialism and
to you know appeal to that tradition um
so on the one hand he is interested in
arguing for a materialist ontology but
one that contains within itself a theory
of subjectivity where the subject is
seen as irreducible to this material
basis of being that you know he is
ontologically committed to as
fundamental and that moreover um very
much resembles the sort of subjectivity
that we often think of as associated
with anti materialist idealisms for
example the cartisian
Kito you know or something like for for
instance in the German idealist context
FAS self-positing eye Etc um that you
know gek wants on the one hand uh as I
portray him in in that 2008 book a
theory of kogito like subjectivity of um
you know an irreducible autonomous you
know not itself just physical not one
object among others uh uh subject that
nonetheless um is somehow accounted for
within the parameters of an overarching
materialist
ontology oh hold on my one of my Apple
uh devices thought that I was talking to
it and started speaking to me and
distracted me all right don't worry
about that
so but um and and so uh to cut uh at
this point a very long story very short
um you know I so I have ended up in
certain ways taking over this label um
but developing on under the banner of
transcendental materialism a position
which now I mean gek and I have been
back and forth in recent years debating
about some of these issues um and one
thing I'm going to be working on in the
next couple of years is he and I have
decided to do a co-author debate book
together about some of these matters um
but you know for me basically the what I
am now trying to work out uh Under The
Heading of transal materialism however
useful or not that label is um what I'm
trying to work out is a model where you
can account for not don't uh and really
for me a materialism ultimately does
have to posit nature uh as ontological
ground zero so really not just a
materialism but a naturalism um a
naturalist metaphysic
that argues that you know indeed you
know at least for us given our
epistemological constraints the ultimate
ontological Ground Zero is you know pre
or non-human nature in and of itself and
that this nature gives rise to is is
responsible for the very Genesis of
among other things ourselves as subjects
um and of course here one of my
historical sources of inspiration is the
shelling of the late 1790s and early
1800s he starts you know trying to
develop after Kant what he and Hegel uh
uh called NATA philosophy philosophy of
Nature and that the shelling of a text
like 1800 system of transcendental
idealism argues that well on the one
hand epistemologically speaking we have
