it really seemed as though he had
decided he was going to double down on
you know that ultimately for him you
know Hegel was really the most
foundational figure um but you know at
the same time you know you have uh you
know in recent years as I mentioned
earlier today um him going back to this
project that he first introduced in 1996
in the indivisible remainder this you
know philosophical psychoanalytic
engagement with quantum physics um where
it's very clear I mean and I think there
are good reasons why when doing that
work xiet tends to favor shelling over
Hegel um and if this you know sort of
dialectical materialism that X claims
results from you know his philosophical
psychoanalytic appropriation of quantum
physics um if this is kind of the core
of his system as he sometimes seems to
to indicate nowadays well then I think
really it's shelling more than any other
figure who is sort of the ultimate
underlying you know Authority or
reference for what xek is doing where
yes I mean I see myself in this case as
definitely uh much more hegelian I think
for Hegel no it's not as though you know
various forms of Guist um are just the
return of some sort of pre
subjective um you know say you know
nature philosophical or even
logical uh uh X that then you know
somehow manag of reality is having
developed these other natural and you
know sociohistorical Dimensions um
instead no that there's that that the
you know for for you know Hegel the
structures and Dynamics operative at the
level of Guist although they arise from
n um are really you know irreducible to
it um that there's a strong
irreducibility there that would forbid
you know the closing of the circle in
the donut style model that you get with
something like uh you know the shelling
whose philosophy of nature uh you know
then comes to be colored by some of his
more spinos istic commitments and you
know then you get this middle period
shelling that xek relies on who is a
clear champion of this Return of the
repressed you know uh sort of circular
dut model uh as distinct from the heelan
one where the end does not rejoin the
beginning in that way Perfect all right
this is a great seg Prof because I want
to kind of discuss uh your other great
book a new German idealism uh this book
is kind of becoming like my Bible I've
been reading very
carefully um what what I firstly want
well I think we already did uh touch on
a lot of these points uh kind of what
you covered in this book there's this
beautiful line which I've uh annoyingly
read out to most of my most of my
friends uh and and and and I I can't get
over the fact that for some reason for
me it captures what what German idealism
is is trying is struggling with let's
say philosophically it's in page 138 and
if you don't mind I'm just going to read
it out here goe you say um the subject
is the immense absolute power of
negativity the power of introducing a
gap or cut into the given immediate
substantial Unity the power of
differentiating of abstracting of
tearing apart and treating as
self-standing what in reality is part of
an organic unity and for me this
this is this sounds absolutely hegelian
this kind of almost the subject is
almost like a trauma a trauma in reality
this appears uh so Professor if you
could just perhaps give your thoughts on
on that ex I read and as to why you
think uh understanding the subject in
this way is important uh for the ongoing
philosophical discourse around German
idealism right so what one of the things
that uh you alerts in the background of
of that passage you just read is
something that you know here again since
you know that that book too involved a
continuation of some of the debates that
already at that point had been engaged
in with xek for a while but um you know
