quantum mechanics in the Natural
Sciences uh I I think I think people can
find you commenting on that on on many
other podcasts however if if it's okay
Professor if you could just outline uh
some of the work you're doing um oh
sorry before that perhaps one one thing
I should mention is that um from what
you said something I got was that I put
put put it put itly for you uh
subjectivity is still something new that
emerges so you're a lot more that sense
in your L model whereas it's not
something that where something that
exists in this primordial Abyss that
that returns to our classical reality um
yes and and and I think I think that
that for me goes well with the idea of
transcendental materialism too because
there is that again that irreducibility
of the of the subject in in any way of
what already existed and I think that's
where the uh
interesting dialogue continues um
interesting questions lie um
unfortunately I couldn't read your book
with Katherine Malibu uh because too
long to arrive so but I I do want to ask
you why you so prefer to stick to the um
the cognitive neurosciences over quantum
mechanics and perhaps while answering
that if you could just comment on the
work you've been doing with uh Catherine
malabu within that field please yes so I
should and in terms that I think also
will be helpful for you know again uh
especially listeners of yours who have
more of an analytic
background um you could say that my
ultimately my reasons for preferring
neurobiology over quantum mechanics in
terms of this uh you know longer running
debate with xek you know this this
disagreement between the two of us part
of it has to do with my commitment to um
a very strong form of emergentism um and
you know given strong
emergentism that uh you know there is
going to be something new with each you
know if we're going to identify
something as as genuinely constituting
an emergent level or layer a set a
phenomena you know that can be you know
seen as generated by something but that
level below that gives rise to what
emerges nonetheless you know starting
from that level one cannot come up with
uh a satisfactory account of the
structures and Dynamics in play at the
next level that is Arisen on that basis
um that you know for me the kinds of
structures and dynamics that emerge at
the level of what we would call
subjectivity have a distinctness even
you know that where you can't account
for all of it even in terms of just uh
uh Neuroscience that of course you know
one of the things uh and this is and
this is where the link to Malibu comes
into play is that not only am I
committed to a strong emergentism that
along with it would also allow for what
is known as top down causation but in
addition we have to me Malibu's big
breakthrough here more than anything
else um goes back to you'll find her
already pointing to this in the closing
paragraphs of her 1996 dissertation on
Hegel that you know she wrote Under Dar
Do's Direction but really first comes
fully into play in her 20 4 book it
appeared in French at least in 2004 what
should we do with our brain and I think
Malibu to our great credit um is really
the first at least Continental
philosopher that I know of
who registered the significance of the
development of Notions having to do with
neuroplasticity and epigenetics in the
Life Sciences and those things really
start you know coming to the for in the
1990s
um and that what Malibu recognized um
and recognized I think in part thanks to
her work on Hegel and along with that
also on certain postag Alan developments
like dialectical materialism is that
Malibu realized that well if the human
central nervous system is very plastic
and is subject to a lot of environmental
