of Consciousness in this vein is that
his work allows for the possibility of
saying well the thing is is that you
know qualitative Consciousness right
this this experience of qualia as as
Charmers you know highlights in his in
his account of hard problem of
Consciousness that chamers speculation
that you know perhaps you know the what
it is like of various qualia are you
know fundament are just you know brute
fundamental facts of nature along with
other things um you know and that
um and but that of course these facts of
nature that are qualia and unlike with
pan psychism are not just universally
equ equitably distributed across the
entire expanse of the of the physical
universe or of all of material natural
reality um that you have you know these
discreet small localized Pockets where
qualia arise and that qualia although
they emerge from certain physical
systems that um you know at least as far
as our understanding can get that maybe
there is this Spade turning quality to
them in terms of well you know why is it
that you know a certain you know
wavelength of light has it the qu you
know the
qualitative quality to us I'm sorry qual
you know is a qualer has this sort of
feel to it what it is like to see A
Certain Shade of red right and that you
know it may be that there isn't any
further explanation that can be offered
there we just have to take it as it's
just a brute stupid fact of nature like
any other fact of nature that it just so
happens that in a physical being with a
central nervous system configured like
ours that you know the the visual
apparatus encountering this wav light of
wavelength of light will generate this
corresponding qualitative State of
Consciousness that is the quality of
that shade of red right and that that is
there's just a certain ultimate um you
know just brute facticity of the matter
to it um that we're perfectly
comfortable accepting about various
inary laws of nature Etc and that I
think Cher's proposal that you know
there might just be these brute
factual uh uh relationships between say
certain wavelengths on the light
spectrum and certain you know visual
qualitative experiences that's just
another one of those brute facts of
nature uh and that you know at that
point um you know we can of course draw
the parallels in terms of you know
certain aspects of how our central
nervous system functions and those
corresponding qualitative states of
conscious awareness um but that you know
at that point perhaps our job is more or
less done um that again there is that
Spade turning quality it's just well it
is what it is I mean in the same way
that any other aspect of nature is what
it is um and you know so I think that
that's you know not when chers you know
ex is willing to speculate about
full-blown psychism but rather when you
know he's willing to say that like the
panchas Consciousness might just be
something fundamental Al to to Nature or
a fundamental aspect of nature but then
there's the option of you don't have to
if you accept that you don't have to end
up as a panus where you just evenly
distribute that across the entire
expanse of what exists at the physical
level but just say only certain a
certain set of physical
configurations are able to have you know
corresponding with them these also
primitive natural states that are qualia
excellent excellent and I think I can
see your your ponchon towards that sort
of thinking because especially when you
when you POS it as a brute fact of
reality that's also very n naturalist
it's it's yeah there's no further
explanation requiring say it is it is
what it is as you said uh yes right
right uh well Prof so now to kind of
flesh out your differences and kind of
this ongoing debate with J now of course
