debate but what other projects are you
working on what do you think are the
ongoing developments uh within the kind
of the German idealist uh linian or
psych analytic space uh that you're a
part of
so in terms of what I'm working on at
the moment um I have a book in
production with Bloomsbury that I
co-authored with a leanian friend of
mine Lorenzo Kiza um and it's a a book
entitled God is Undead psychoanalysis
for unbelievers and right it is it
involves looking at both agnosticism and
Atheism from Freudian and leanian
psychoanalytic perspectives um and
attempting to develop
versions of what we call unbelief uh you
know with with real contemporary
viability um on the basis of how the two
of us uh uh work with both Freud and Lan
but there the the core bone of
contention between myself and Lorenzo
Lorenzo wants to argue that Lan's
atheism is qualified by certain agnostic
sensibilities you know various
reservations or hesitations that Lan
arguably has that prevent him from just
you know a full-blown assertion of
atheism without you know any sort of
accompanying qualifications or caveats
whereas essentially I want to argue that
no Lan is ultimately a very consequent
convinced atheist um and in fact is not
agnostically hesitant about that in any
way um and so Lorenzo and I kind of
fight that out with each other and
that's coming out at the end of this
year uh bloomsberry is projecting a
November or December release for that
book but that's already written it's now
just dealing with copy editing and all
of that uh part of the production
process um you know my biggest task is
to finish the third and final volume of
my three volume pramin yes and that that
that volume is going to involve a lot of
analytic philosophy and a lot of
scientific material and really um it
will involve bringing to Bear resources
drawn
from emergentism work on epigenetics
um you know uh discussions of top- down
causation the hard problem of
Consciousness all of that is going to be
part of this project and so I've got you
know stacks of analytic philosophy and
natural science literature that you know
I need to be making my way through to
pull this off you know over the course
of the next couple of years um and you
know in addition to that um I'm starting
to toy with the idea partly this is due
to some of the teaching I was doing
research recently um of writing a book
on Lan that involves focusing on the
classic middle period Lan of the 1950s
the Lan of the
sorian return to Freud so really
seminars one through six and you know
certain of the of the better known
chapters of the a from that same period
um and my idea is going back and looking
at that
Lon after what has in the past 30 plus
years of amongst
leanians um preoccupation mainly with
the later Lon of the 60s and after um
and that you see this you know with
various figures um and of course someone
who was integral in emphasizing the
importance of Shifting Focus to the
later Lan who supposedly prioritizes the
real um and moves Beyond his mid1 1950s
privileging of the symbolic under the
influence of structuralism Etc um you
know this story about like this turn
that happens at the end of the 50s
beginning of the 60s with Lan um and
that you get the late Lan looking at the
middle period of Lan after this like
three decades of focus on the later Lan
um and in ways that would involve
undermining this kind of periodization
of his work that you know that so many
have come to accept as just you know as
almost self-evidence um and you know
people like meair Badu but also you know
Bruce F xek Etc um there's been this
long-standing consensus now on the
