to start like Kant does with this you
know framework of transcendental
subjectivity um that you know determines
the possibility of of knowledge for us
of what you know can be rendered
intelligible what we are able to grasp
Etc with our Concepts categories in the
light um and so if you you know we
talking about knowledge or thinking you
have to you know have start at the level
of the transcendental subject and then
from there you move towards the domain
of objectivity but an objectivity whose
intelligibility is conditioned by our
own subjectivity but then of course
shelling insists though that that by
itself is one-sided and that this needs
to be supplemented by if you start
instead from the level of not
epistemology but ontology then you have
to account for how this very knowing
subject how transcendental subjectivity
itself somehow erose out of nature um
and that that task of thinking the you
know the imminent natural Genesis of
transcendental
subjectivity um is in a way kind of the
key task that an issue that I think is
bequeathed to philosophy
by Poston and German idealism especially
Olaf shelling and Hegel and that is you
know really the big problem that I am
working on myself under the heading of
of of transcendental materialism or I
even sometimes speak of dialectical
naturalism the idea that nature in a
sense denaturalizes itself or generate
something that you know can act uh in in
defiance of how the rest of nature
operates um and that we are precisely
self- denaturalized nature relating to
itself and accounting for that Genesis
for the imminent material natural
Genesis of a of a form of subjectivity
that itself cannot simply be reduced to
its natural material Origins and that
moreover can achieve at least a certain
degree of Freedom wiggle room or
autonomy Visa its material natural
ground you know that's that's really the
the you might say the biggest
philosophical preoccupation of what you
know I'm pursuing and I think xek is
after that in his own way too but he has
a very at this point I think a very
different way of doing it from me um so
you could say that what he and I share
is more a problem or a concern um and we
also of course
share you know very similar tools for
dealing with it this combination of
German idealism Marxism and
psychoanalysis with some other
philosophical resources but I think that
the different picturers that we we come
to you know champion each of us at this
point um you know are very distinct
options from each other and so that's
some of what we're hoping to you know to
be able to lay out more clearly in this
in this book that we'll both be
tinkering on for the next couple of
years well perfect I'd certainly be
pre-ordering that whenever it's out
Professor um that's so beautifully
escalated um although although before I
I would like to flesh out a bit more
your differences between je and how
you're tackling this problem uh but if
he could let's say Devil's Advocate a
bit um so a lot of people recently have
been buying into the idea of panarchism
so in many ways what I see is because
from the objects the subject emerges and
the subject can't be reduced to the
object on emergence they tend to
prescribe to this object some kind of
properties of a of a subject so they say
uh every every entity in the universe in
some way is conscious um so how will you
respond to a psychist uh through your uh
theory of uh transcendental materialism
or or dialectical naturalism and where
do you think uh that that theory that
ontology of panarchism is
lacking yeah I what's interesting is
I've also been thinking about some of
this recently in part thanks to a few of
my doctoral students for example um I
had one who recently defended a
