in this episode for me materialism
ultimately does have to posit nature uh
as ontological ground zero so really not
just a materialism but a naturalism um a
naturalist metaphysics that argues that
you know indeed you know at least for us
given our epistemological constraints
the ultimate ontological Ground Zero is
you know pre or non-human nature in and
of itself and that this nature
gives rise to is is responsible for the
very Genesis of among other things
ourselves as subjects um and of course
here one of my historical sources of
inspiration is the shelling of the late
1790s and early 1800s he starts you know
trying to develop after Kant what he and
Hegel uh called nat philosophy
philosophy of Nature and that the
shelling of a text like 1800 system of
transcendental idealism
argues that well on the one hand
epistemologically speaking we have to
start like Kant does with this you know
framework of transcendental subjectivity
um that you know determines the
possibility of of knowledge for us of
what you know can be rendered
intelligible what we are able to grasp
Etc with our Concepts categories in the
light um and so if you you know are
talking about knowledge or thinking you
have to you know have start at the level
of the transcendental subject and then
from there you move towards the domain
of objectivity but an objectivity whose
intelligibility is conditioned by our
own subjectivity but then of course
shelling insists though that that by
itself is one-sided and that this needs
to be supplemented by if you start
instead from the level of not
epistemology but ontology then you have
to account for how this very knowing
subject how transcendental subjectivity
itself somehow erose out of nature
um and that that task of thinking the
you know the imminent natural Genesis of
transcendental
subjectivity um is in a way kind of the
key task that an issue that I think is
bequeathed to Philosophy by postan and
German idealism especially alaf uh
shelling and Hegel and that is you know
really the big problem that I am working
on myself under the heading of of of
transcendental materialist or I even
sometimes speak of dialectical
naturalism the idea that nature in a
sense denaturalizes itself or generate
something that you know can act uh in in
defiance of how the rest of nature
operates um and that we are precisely
self- denaturalized nature relating to
itself and accounting for that Genesis
for the imminent material natural
Genesis of a of a form of subjectivity
that itself cannot simply be reduced to
its natural material Origins and that
moreover can achieve at least a certain
degree of Freedom wiggle room or
autonomy Visa its material natural
ground he everyone welcome to my
conversation with the philosopher
Professor Adrien Johnston firstly to get
out of the way let me start off by
apologizing uh apologizing for if I
didn't do the best job as an interview
are I felt like in the podcast I was a
little bit nervous uh and didn't really
do the best job at extracting um the
best one could from uh talking to a p
Colac Professor Johnston uh and I've got
to admit the reason for that is because
I was nervous in fact I I I don't I
rarely do get nervous with podcasts I
generally find them to be a just another
conversation uh
but at the risk of uh embarrassing
Professor Johnston if I may say
I have considered him to be a a
philosophical hero of mine um I started
reading him probably four or five years
ago uh with his book
um J's ontology and I was immediately
hooked onto his his style of writing his
his M Mo when it comes to philosophy and
just the way that he Bridges U Myriad
fields in both continental and analytic
philosophy and brings in um the
