xek uh in in in certain places very
helpfully draws readers attention to a
one of many differences between Kant and
Hegel um and uh xek uses uh as an
example here the two different ways that
Kant and Hegel have of talking about
this topic of the imagination in German
idealism um and without getting bogged
down in the technical details for German
idealist Scholars of you know exactly
what is involved in terms of the notion
of the imaginations that features in
this tradition um that of course for
Kant um one of the functions of what
Kant designates his imagination is its
responsibility for synthesizing for
integrating um the contributions of the
two faculties of intuition and
understanding and that you know for for
Kant the
imagination um is it does work in terms
of blending together integrating making
you know cooperate to generate
experience the perceptual contributions
of intuition and the conceptual
contributions of the understanding and
so you know this this uh you know you
might say uh mental faculty power
capacity of synthesis um that somehow
manages to hold together the perceptual
and conceptual sides of experience in a
single coherent integrated whole that
this is a cardinal feature of the conine
account of the imagination um and so
Kant emphasizes synthesis there but then
when you look at how Hegel talks about
the imagination and you know here again
I think G should should be credited with
really nicely bringing this out um and
the place that xek references is hegel's
um 1805 philosophy of spirit where Hegel
first talks about this this notion of
the night of you know the night of the
world and the association of minded
subjectivity with this with this
nocturnal Abyss but um you know when
Hegel describes you know when you look
into the eyes of another and you see in
the black of their pupils this window
onto this abyss of unknowable otherness
um and then Hegel talk you know he he
uses this very gory language and he's
like you know there you know shoot you
know a severed limb you know they're cut
off head you know here like these mem
disjecta you get a sense of you know in
of another um that there's this Abyss in
which you know the world is torn apart
and you know things don't hang together
in the way that you're used to Etc um
that you know for for Hegel you know an
aspect of the imagination Contra con's
emphasis on synthesis is precisely doing
violence to the given right reality is
given to us in certain ways but through
our various cognitive capacities to
engage in forms of abstraction
conceptualization categorization Etc
that what the what you know the human
mind does is actually a kind of violence
to reality where it carves it up uh into
these you know bits and pieces where it
you know essentially butchers it um into
these separate components and and you
know then it you know manipulates them
you know uh you know resynthesize them
in different forms sometimes monstrous
ones uh Etc this idea then of of of you
know something integral to you might say
human experience at large for Hegel is
precisely the opposite of this emphasis
on on you know synthesis organization
the holding together and rendering
coherent of things and kind um that very
much part of what makes our experience
what it is and that enables us to get a
grip on reality is precisely this
capacity for dissociating for carving up
for breaking apart for separating for
you know cut you know basically cutting
into with our abstract C Concepts and
categories and that violent
dismemberment of reality as for Hegel an
absolutely essential moment that we
always have to pass through even if
we're not aware of doing so that enables
us to nonetheless you know have some
sort of an intelligible grip or handle
on things um and you know so there's
there there there's you know this this
