cognitive neuroscience
um and many other disciplines along with
of course the discourse around
psychoanalysis and Marxism um and I've
learned so much from him and I've read
so much of his work quite carefully if
I'm being frank and I felt that I was
kind of overwhelmed with the amount of
questions I wanted to ask him and and
sort of all of the numerous thoughts
I've had in my head while reading him
and I felt in this moment I had to
synthesize it all and and ask him clear
coach
questions and that I felt like I put a
lot of UND pressure on myself and in no
way it was this professor Johnson's
fault in fact uh he was very cordial and
congenial and um and I I felt like he
just truly engaged with my questions in
a deep and perspicacious manner uh and I
hope I I did a good job as an
interlocutor but be that as it may it's
just a bit of a caveat for you the
listener if I didn't really do a good
job um but what I primarily discussed
through this conversation was the theory
of
materialism that Professor Johnson
advocates for uh the transcendental
materialist Theory which um to put it
simply is a way of TR to understand um
how the subject emerges from the objects
but also the fact that the subject can
be reduced to the object on emergence um
and then the question would be what is
nature like that it can give rise to
subjects to conscious beings um and
certainly this is heavily influenced by
Hegel and shelling for myself the reason
I was particularly drawn towards
Professor Johnston's work is that he
would still clearly delineate the
subject and the object not particularly
in a dualistic cartisian way it was a
bit more complicated than that however
perhaps in a more dialectical way where
he would still say that there is a
difference between subjects and objects
between us conscious beings and then the
objective non-conscious World um um
whereas as we discuss in the podcast
people like pan sists or analytic
idealists uh tend to prescribe
subjectivity or Consciousness to all of
being all of existence and personally
for myself I always was kind of turned
off by that kind of thinking because I
felt there wasn't um many productive
dialogue that can emerge from or come
out of uh such um all encompassing
ontologies whereas the uh transcendental
on the transcendental materialist
ontology for myself at least is deeply
heelan and deeply dialectical which is
perhaps important uh when we when we
theorize uh as as a philosopher U or as
a lay philosopher like myself so it's
with this intent that I approach this
conversation where I really try to bring
forward Professor Johnston's theory of
materialism uh transcendental
materialism which is where we went into
you know quantum mechanics his uh
critique of jeek J's use of quantum
mechanics which is very interesting I
mean he's spoken about this in a couple
of episodes and a couple of podcasts uh
I should say uh but I still find it's
quite productive whenever he does
critique J and I was happy to hear that
uh he is writing or collaborating on a
book with uh
slav uh to discuss these matters a bit
more deeply um and on that note I want
to mention this too that he's done some
great work with Katherine malabu um I
haven't studied Katherine Mal's work
much but I'm really hoping to next year
to read uh more of her work especially
uh in the cognitive
neurosciences uh with uh neuroplasticity
and then her connection how she connects
that to more of hegelian philosophy uh
so I'm I'm really Keen to look into that
and in fact even read the book that
Professor Johnston wrote wrote with u
Professor kather malabu uh I I ordered
the book but it just didn't arrive in
time but I certainly am hoping to read
