superiority of the later Lan to the
middle perod Lan and not only do I think
that there's not such an Abrupt break or
discontinuity I also think that there
are very interesting aspects of that
middle period Lan that have not yet been
done Justice to because you know in the
US that middle period stuff was some of
the first things that got translated
into English and you had like in the 7s
' 80s Etc people reading Lan in English
um you know really not having access to
the later Lan reading the middle period
Lan and doing so in a climate in which
he's viewed as just one of many of these
like post-war you know French
structuralists or post-st structuralist
and it's kind of lumped together with
dared da Fuko Etc um and so you get this
sort of language and literature
Department version of the middle period
Lan and of course you know since
language and literature folks are the
ones doing this they latch on to his
emphasis on language uh Allah you know
the familiar soran references Etc
but there's you know between that and
then the later letra shift attention to
Lan who comes after that starting in
semr 7 that's left this middle period
Lan I think left underexplored
and I think misunderstood and I'm with
the idea further down the road of doing
this you know sort of you know more
scholarly technical Deep dive into you
know that middle period Lan and showing
that he is not so much the
straightforward sorian structural
Linguistics person who he's often
portrayed as being in that time and that
there's a lot that we have yet to
realize is continuous with what he does
in his later work or perhaps even
Superior in terms of how he tackled
certain problems in that middle period
and to sort of you know ReDiscover and
and and you
know compel people to revisit that
earlier Lon after all of this attention
paid to his later work and so you know
that would be further down the road but
I think that's something eventually I'll
get around to doing amazing amazing
thank you thank you for that uh almost P
let's say well to use a linian term you
certainly seem to be making good use of
your lack and uh making good use of it
um actually excellent well uh professor
as I said thanks again this has been
truly an honor yeah it's really been
great I look forward to it just send me
the uh the link when when you have the
content up I look forward to look
forward to seeing it and would you mind
if um I've been doing you know I'm doing
a series of podcast interviews in fact
two days from now I am being interviewed
by cadel last again but about infinite
greed um in terms of these recent
podcasts columia has a web page for
infinite greed and they like to link to
the podcast would you be okay with them
putting a link to this up there on on
that fact that would be fantastic I'll
I'll edit it up and I'll I'll send it
across uh but for sure I'll I'll I'll
I'll keep you updated on how it goes I I
generally edit these side apart from
just cutting out the awkward U you know
lagging and whatnot but just making it a
bit more listenable but uh hopefully
hopefully it comes out well but uh it
it's been it's truly been great I I
learned so much thank you well thank you
it's been great talking to you and I
look forward to uh you know to being in
touch with you again for sure sure all
right take care bye take care
