job description uh for the position I
ended up getting here was a somebody who
is a continental philosopher but
nonetheless very comfortable talking to
analytic types um and that was in fact
just part of the job description and so
you know it ended up working out that I
you know got the position um but apart
from that in terms of you know how I see
myself bridging this divide and I'm
certainly not alone in this there are
you know various you know efforts being
made I think to um you know get these
two philosophical traditions seriously
engaging with each other nowadays but
you know for me there's both a style and
a Content component um at the stylistic
level uh you know I I I try my best to
to write in a way that involves uh you
know Clarity that involves argumentative
rigor you know various of these things
that analytic philosophers place a
premium on and you know my hope is
always that the things that I write even
if I'm writing about very Continental
figures such as Hegel or Lon that I'm
still able to write about authors like
that in a fashion that opens up their
ideas to those who don't come from
Continental backgrounds and aren't
necessarily you know versed in the
particular technical vocabularies of
these you know specific European figures
um so that's a stylistic aspect and I
think that again the analytic
philosophical premium on um you know
Clarity rigor lack of Reliance on
obscure jargon Etc you know those things
you know I also tried to take to heart
you know in terms of my own writing but
content wise I mean many of
the um metaphysical and philosophy of
Mind issues that I'm most concerned with
things having to do with materialism the
Mind Body relationship Etc you know
these are readily recognizable Central
philosophical questions for just about
any philosopher including any analytic
philosopher um you I use a different
toolkit than you're standard analytic
philosopher to deal with questions in
metaphysics or philosophy of mind um but
many of the questions and concerns um
are very much the same and my hope is uh
is that approaching
um things that are of concern to
analytic philosophical types but again
with with figures orientations resources
Etc that usually analytic philosophers
are are not trained in are not you know
uh inclined to reach for themselves when
wrestling with certain issues you know
things like psychoanalysis
Marxism um postan and German idealism I
mean these are orientations that I think
are of great use for these big
philosophical questions that even the
analytics readily recognize are the big
philosophical questions still um but you
know most analytics their education in
the history of philosophy stops with a
certain version of Kant um they then
generally tend to think after Kant the
Europeans went insane you know that the
postcontent idealist just went off the
speculative deep end um and it was just
a big intellectual mess or catastrophe
for most of the 19th century um and then
you know at the start of the 20th
century um you know sanity has recovered
with you know Fraga Russell Vicken Stein
and Company um and I think that so much
of what occurs in that 19th century Gap
um between Kant and Russell and Company
uh that tends to be overlooked in
analytic philosophy is actually it
contains much that I think uh can be
demonstrated even to analytic
philosophers much that is useful for
dealing with issues in metaphysics and
philosophy of mind that they're dealing
with excellent Professor uh in fact
maybe perhaps as an example since we
were just talking about your recent book
infinite greed um maybe if you could
like so for B of context I'll a lot of
the uh listeners of this podcast still
tend to be more from the analytic Camp
more from the the cognitive science
background and and some of them um are
