the home the dwelling and whereas the
the the more emancipatory point is to
embrace one's Universal alienation in
some sense um that's beautifully put
Professor I want to be cognizant of your
time so just uh perhaps the penultimate
question is it okay if if you go for
about 10 more minutes yes that should
work perfect thank you so much um sure I
just you know again that that we could
probably have a whole podcast on this
topic but just if you could maybe
superficially comment on H Graham
Harmon's objectoriented ontology uh the
reason being I I I really want to you
know focus on your the materialism you
put put put forward um and just
generally what are your what are your
intimations on Triple O and that sort of
thinking well I haven't in recent years
been keeping up with what has been going
on you know in terms of objectoriented
ontology but um you know one thing that
in recent years did occur to me based on
past exchanges I've had directly with
Harmon himself um you know but also of
course reading certain things that he
and you know some of his fellow
Travelers have published although again
my I would say my knowledge of their
work at this point is a good few years
out of date um I'm you know when Harmon
for instance cautions against what he
call you know undermining and overmining
right and the idea of you know reduction
in either direction of uh you know and
insisting that you know there are these
you know each of these ontological
levels or layers has its own IR ible
specificity and integrity um and that uh
you know attempts to you know collapse
everything down to the extremely small
or to you know account for things with
appeal to higher order entities or
categories um that you know that that
sort of um anti-reductionist sensibility
that is part of Harmon's Outlook I share
with him but I still think that there is
something to the idea of subjectivity
that cannot be accounted for using any
and all language available to us in
terms of the sorts of discourses that we
have for talking about objects um and
that I think that um you know in terms
of uh you know whether you think of it
as as you know our capacity for you know
reflexivity or recursion in relation to
our own cognitive contents um you know
when you you know when you examine the
manner in which you know we we operate
when we oper operate with what we take
to be our autonomy or our freedom um I
think that you do see you know uh
structures and Dynamics phenomena
manifest at that level that I think are
distinctive enough to make it such that
it still to me makes perfectly good
sense to say well this this is
indicative of something called
subjectivity which is um you know not
universally present it isn't it doesn't
just inhere in any and all objects
whatsoever only very peculiar certain
sorts of objects seem give rise to you
know what what we associate with
subjectivity um although subjectivity
for various reasons can't be reduced to
an object like the brain that
nonetheless is a crucial material
condition of possibility for it um you
know all of that you know so I think
that you know I just I don't see much to
be gained by you know the general Spirit
of there's nothing exceptional or
distinctive about human beings relative
to the rest of reality let's just say as
a fundamental philosophical intuition I
disagree with that I do think that we
are very strange and peculiar um and
starting from that type of of very
specific sort of Aristotelian Wonder at
the weirdness of human beings that I
think my work develops whereas I think
Harmon's at this level his most
fundamental intuition is that no there's
nothing
extraordinary peculiar unique about us
and let's stop privileging ourselves and
just flatten things out and put
ourselves on the ex exact same level as
