you know all other sorts of things that
we could identify here as quote unquote
objects um and so I think that's a very
fundamental difference in terms of just
basic philosophical intuition but then
also I'd say methodologically I mean one
of the things Harmon complains about
about my work is oh I just you know he
in in a way that I sometimes think is
not entirely fair I mean he's a friend
but you know this I definitely disagree
with he tends to think that I just that
I am some sort
of natural scientific reductionist um
you know it seems like he doesn't he
can't see the distinction between the
sort of position I stake out and say if
you want to talk in analytic terms the
eliminative materialism of Paul and
Patricia Church went um you know and you
know to me like there's a world of
difference between you know a naturalist
materialism all the church lens in terms
of limited materialism and anything
along the lines of what I'm trying to do
um and it seems as though Harmon does
have you know and it to me it's no
accident coming out of the kind of
phenomenological background that he
comes out of including heiger that
there's a kind of anti-naturalistic
science phobia uh to you know to object
Ori ontology and whereas for me it's odd
it's like well if you want to talk about
things as objects it seems as though we
already have apart from philosophy a
whole set of discourses and explanatory
Frameworks for that many of those we
call the Natural Science
right why would I prefer an
objectoriented
ontologist account of an object as an
object uh why would I necessarily want
to privilege that over say how a
physicist you know Etc would describe it
um you know to me it's that the Natural
Sciences provide us with an adequate
discourse for talking about objects that
also is much more
epistemologically found and plausible
versus what strikes is kind of armchair
speculation about objects that then also
has the added disadvantage of it seems
to me riding rough shot over what to
from my philosophical vantage point is
still a hard to entirely dispose of
distinction between subjectivity and
objectivity but yeah yeah y I mean
leaving aside the methodology for me it
was always again back to the the the the
trauma of the subject and what I read
this except where you know the the the
immense power of negativity
that's what this kind of flat ontology
of Triple O just just in capture I'm
okay to be fair only read two books by
Hammond but uh I think that that's
perfectly Professor excellent uh well I
I I got to say this has been the one one
of the biggest honors of my life thank
you so much for your time Professor I
truly truly am grateful um if I could
ask I know you said sorry go ahead yeah
I was just going to say I'm very
grateful for you having me on it's been
a wonderful conversation these are
fantastic questions so thank you very
much thank you thank you Professor yeah
I've learned so much from you and I hope
to keep reading your work and hopefully
uh uh you know I can give you an update
on how the book study goes uh we we do
it online I could even if you want send
you a a zoom recording um of of how it
went oh that'd be cool yeah I will also
tell you that um that book adventures
and Transit on materialism the chapters
in it on xek are where that's the
starting point for the debates that he
and I have had about quantum physics
versus neurobiology and that was sort of
the opening
Salvo you know and then things kind of
developed from there so but there's of
course beautiful thank you thank you I I
didn't know that that's that's a great
Insight um but just want to know
Professor so what what other projects
are I know you said you're writing on
this book which reject this ongoing
