of at least minimal alienation Visa any
of those positive identities that I
nonetheless also do identify with at the
same time but I I'm sorry for
interrupting I just oh not all perfect
that that was excellent point in fact
Professor can I ask have you been this
is not not a deeply theoretical text but
Todd mcgavin's embracing alienation have
you been have you have you read this res
I haven't had a chance to read it yet
I've Obed it but exactly the point he
makes uh in this book that uh for the
lenan subject in some sense the purpose
of uh analysis is to create hysterics of
us old and for us to not not to fully to
for us into the whatever the the social
structure or culture but rather to kind
of embrace this alienation we all feel
as subjects and and I think that's very
upt to point and I think that's where
Lon differs more from let's say the ego
pych driven kind of therapy where it's
rather getting you to fit back into
society uh yes something very manatory
in that way of
thinking and also I think just in terms
of certain cultural and political issues
um you know what Todd is doing there uh
you know involves this important Insight
which is that if we are going to have
some form of especially political
universalism you know some sort of idea
of you know a a a shared common struggle
that really does cut across all of our
identitarian differences well of course
you know older more traditional forms of
universalism say like Enlightenment
style universalism of course we've come
to realize was just disguised European
ethnocentrism it was you know taking you
a particular positive model of human
nature that uh you know that you know
these partisans of this Enlightenment
model mistook for the universal you know
In the Flesh um and falsely generalizing
it to all of humanity but it seems as
though we're often left with the idea
that well if you want universalism you
would have to have something like that
and that would just involve um a false
generalization of what is always
a sociohistorically culturally Etc local
you know particular vision of of of you
know who we are and you know falsely
generalizing it it's either that or oh
you just get you just say well it's a
relativistic free-for-all there is no
possibility of true political
universalism you know different cultures
different groups Etc you know have these
irreducible differences that just simply
have to be respected and that's it and I
think that this linian approach allows
the idea that well you can have the
possibility of of a political
universality but not based on some
falsely generalized positive content but
based on what we universally share is
our inability to fully identify with for
instance our own groups Etc that we all
are minimally out of joint with our
context and various versions of that out
of jointedness are something that we do
share and that if that is the universal
it doesn't bring with it the same kind
of problems of you know cultural
imposition ethnocentrism Etc that a
traditional kind of let's find a PO a a
positive Identity or a vision of human
nature that can be universalized no I
mean instead it's our inability to ever
be feel fully at ease with you know the
second skins of our various uh uh
positive identities that's the level on
which perhaps true solidarity could be
established and I think that you know
that and so yeah I'm looking forward to
Todd's newest book um but he writes
quite a bit too so it's hard to always
keep up um oh is the uh the yourself and
Tom McGavin I don't know how you guys do
it it's uh it's constantly putting books
out there I can't I mean as readers we
can't even keep up but you guys are
writing so much uh and and just on that
point I'd say that's a very anti-h
hiigaran Point even and Tom mavin points
that out in the book where you know hi
whole point is kind of getting back to
