know some sort of detailed compelling
account
at some point that could be worked out
um to substantiate the idea that certain
aspects of our subjectivity uh you know
indeed are made possible by what
ultimately are quantum level structures
and Dynamics but um you know that that
does seem a long way off and moreover
for me one of the ironies too um with
xek is
that um you know he in terms in terms of
things associated with this motif of
ontological incompleteness you know Etc
that um what you actually would get you
know in terms of you know a fleshing out
of some sort of direct connection
between the physics of the extremely
small and you know midscale being such
as ourselves I mean if you could carry
out that sort of explanatory reduction
of the quantum level of aspects of our
mindedness that would seem to point in a
direction that she doesn't want to go in
ontologically which would be something
much more like a kind of physicalist
monism right that you know Al I mean or
a standard kind of reductionistic
picture right that
ultimately everything that exists is
really just I mean here you don't even
have to have it the predates quantum
physics I mean you can go back to
Newton's era and you can look at you
know certain materialist philosophers
who were enthused by Newton's work and
for whom okay what this shows is that
ultimately everything can be explained
using um you know the mechanical
principle of motion in relation to the
smallest constituent bits of matter so
you just have matter and mechanical
motion um and everything ultimately can
be explained in this way um and I think
that uh you know if you know the idea of
reducing the mental to the quantum um it
would seem to be much much more uh uh
compatible with a sort of radical monism
of A physicalist Sort which should just
say that yeah whatever our phys of the
ultimate building blocks of reality are
so the physics of the extremely small
whether it's Quantum Mech mechanic
String Theory whatever whatever we end
up deciding are the you know tiniest
Elementary constituents of physical
being everything ultimately is is to be
explained at that level and it seems
though G's gesture weirdly is in line
with that sort of sensibility despite
the fact that by contrast what he seems
to want is you you know a
a an ontology that certainly would not
be an ontology of an ultimately
homogeneous you know undifferentiated
unified field of matter and motion um
where it that's the sole Ultimate
Reality it's just this flat expanse of
physical stuff and the efficient causal
mechanisms for the interactions between
those physical things um but that's at
the same time what it seems as though
you know the kind of picture that would
just be further supported were his
hypotheses about you know the you know
essentially the quantum nature of our
midscale you know subjectivity or at
least the aspects that interest him if
that ends up being substantiated then I
think we're much closer to vindicating
an ontology that is in a way weirdly at
odds with I think what xek wants at that
level yep I mean this is perhaps
Blasphemous for me to say but it seems
that you're more hegelian than even J
well yeah I mean part of my part of my
complaint is that I'm like look if
anything I think that slavo you are much
more of a kind of crypto shenian yes
than a hegelian at least when it comes
to these issues right and that's you
know and that's also you know why you
know I do think there yeah there is
tension in terms of you know G saying
that you know really
ultimately when push comes to shove I'm
really more heelan than anything else
even more than than a leanian you know
starting from around the time you know
that less than nothing came out in 2012
