actively averse to let's say a
psychoanalysis or they would be they
would be more like let's say agnostic
about it they would know what what it's
all about so if you could use your you
know recent book infinite GRE as an
example and then perhaps uh kind of try
to
elucidate why why is
it what would you say are the the what's
the value in in fields in discourses
such as psychoanalysis to a field uh
more from the analytic tradition like
something like cognitive science or more
like the analytic philosophy of
mind yes well I would say that you know
in terms of psychoanalysis both
traditional psychoanalysis uh figures
such as Freud and laan but also of
course some of my work looks at um
contemporary psychoanalysis VV the
current state of play in the
neurosciences and there's a whole field
known as neuros psychoanalysis that you
know I'm also very much engaged with and
you know it's mainly non- leanian anal
psychoanalysis but there are a few
leanians such as myself who also have
interests in in neuros psychoanalysis
but I would say that at the biggest of
big picture levels um if you take
psychoanalysis as as the point of
reference here um you know to begin with
I think that Freud very much like Mars
and N before him that it is not without
very good reason that the French
hermeneutic philosopher Paul rur
famously describes Marx nche and Freud
as quote unquote the three great hermene
newes of Suspicion
um and you know in Freud's case of
course that suspicion has everything to
do with the specifically psychoanalytic
conception of the
unconscious um and that of course uh
Freud when advancing his analytic
conception of the unconscious from very
early on in his career was aware of
having to fight against a deeply
entrenched bias that you also see very
much reflected in the western
philosophical tradition that tends to
equate the mental with the conscious and
to view those two things as coextensive
or synonymous um and of course one of
Freud's revolutionary gestures is to
insist that no that uh it is not always
the case that when we think we think
that we think or that when we know we
know that we know that there isn't that
guarantee of accompanying self-aware
reflexivity such that all that is mental
as conscious um that in fact con you
know the conscious portion of mental
life is just the tip of a vast Iceberg
and that moreover for Freud it's not
that what is you know below the
threshold of our explicit selfawareness
is just a chaotic primitive
animalistic uh you know seething
cauldron of impulses and urges all you
know kind of a depth psychological
romantic conception of the Freudian ID
is that the unconscious involves very
complex cognitive processes but that
transpire without accomp
firsters conscious cognizance or
self-awareness right and at the time
Freud was proposing this it was very
controversial and went against um the
grain of certain traditional intuitions
about mental life um but now what what's
surprising is that despite Freud
repeatedly being pronounced dead and
buried you know intellectually obsolete
bankrupt Etc one of the things that is
is a lasting Legacy of his is that even
anti freudians like hardnose El limited
materialist Neuroscience types um it's
really at this point uncontroversial
that much of mental life is
non-conscious you know whether
unconscious in Freud sense that might be
more debatable but really there's no
serious um empirical scientific
disagreement that no in fact the mental
and the conscious are far from
synonymous or coextensive and that
indeed
the mental vastly uh exceeds in scope
