contextual mediation at the level of
epigenetics Etc um that you know one of
the consequences of this is that you
know when we look at the brain it's not
as though the brain by itself as a simp
as simply as a biological entity and
where all of the relevant explanations
for why it is the way it is would
somehow be developed at the biological
level or you know at the chemical or
even physical level no that you know
given given neuroplasticity and
epigenetics that the very shape
structure functioning Etc of the central
nervous system is is what it is thanks
to the more than biological including
things like social political economic
Etc factors that sculpt are very
biological being from the get-go and
that the constitution of our our bodies
and especially of the central nervous
system is itself the outcome of the
interaction between the organism and the
environment with plasticity and
epigenetics being the biological
explanation of what aspects of organic
Constitution opens the organism up to
extra organic mediation that nonetheless
has absolutely you know palpable
concrete not literally material
consequences for the
very
configuration of in this case you know
the brain of the central nervous system
um and you know of course in analytic
philosophy this also links up with you
know you do have you know certain
analytic philosophers of Mind who are
interested in the topic of what they
call Extended mind um you know Andy
Clark aloi Etc and you know I think that
here again there's this opportunity for
bridging between analytic and
Continental that if you take the kind of
work someone like Malibu has done in
connection with issues having to do with
neuroplasticity and epigenetics and put
this into dialogue with what more
analytically trained philosophers of
mind working on extended mind have been
doing one will see you know a
remarkable you know I think uh uh you
know Confluence of concerns that and
that you know really calls out for labor
to be done in terms of working out and
weaving these these these you know two
sorts of research programs together and
so yeah I think that um you know there's
even neurobiological Vindication of
something like the extended mind model
um and of course lurking in the
background behind something like the
extended mind model of of analytic
philosophy of mind you have many various
precursors of that including ones that I
think you would find in Hegel um even
though of course most analytic
philosophers wouldn't think there's much
of any value to be found in Hegel but
there it is um but yeah and for me like
what what the first book of Malibus that
I read that re um and it's you know I I
read it shortly before I had the
opportunity to meet her was that book
what should we do with our brain and um
you know it hit me that you know this
this was really kind of a crucial what
Malibu was doing there made possible a
whole set of developments that you know
some of which I've attempted to work out
myself but uh yeah yeah perfect I mean
again you don't have to go too deeply
into this because you've discussed this
in many other podcasts one one one
conversation that comes to mind is the
conversation you had with the Kel last
on philosophy
portal as to why you so prefer to you
know use the the cognitive neurosciences
over quantum mechanics and and I'd say
one thing correct me if I'm wrong here
Professor is that one thing you would
argue is that there's still a lot of
productive philosophical developments to
be made just on the brain as such and
what we're learning through the
neurosciences yes absolutely absolutely
and again you know it's um you know with
with gak recourse to quantum physics I
mean in the end perhaps there is you
