dissertation on shelling the early
shellings philosophy of Nature and the
way David Charmers talks about Pan
psychism um in in his work on philosophy
of mind um and you know with using
Charmers here as a as a a convenient
reference and you know someone whose
work you know especially if you have a a
good number of analytic listeners you
know most of them would be at least
passingly familiar with um what I'm to
say is high you know just like with
Freud and Beyond the Pleasure Principle
highly tentative but I've become
increasingly tempted by an aspect of
chambers's approach which I
think expresses con you know the same
sort of concerns that motivate some
people now to turn to pan psychism but
doesn't require actually buying into
full-blown Pan psychism um so you know I
should to begin by saying I don't find
full-blown pan psychism at all
persuasive I mean you can start just at
a very naive common sensical level which
is that you know in terms of what
prompts any of us to attribute
mindedness to something uh that that
that we come across you know that you
know why I for instance ascribe
mindedness to you while talking to you
right now despite just being limited to
having this image on my computer screen
you know and all of this sensory
perceptual content that I could just
attribute to my own mind if I were say a
solipsist um that you know of course
when we when we posit the existence
however explicitly or implicitly of
other Minds we do so because we're
prompted by what we take to be evidence
expressive of you know some mindedness
on that side you know that you react to
me in certain ways that you engage in
particular behaviors that seem to be
purposive and direct towards a specific
aim Ander goal that you know you you you
have reactions that seem to indicate
feeling states that I'm familiar with in
myself Etc and so that leads me to you
know attribute a mind to you and of
course you know the you know when it
comes to what we experience as inanimate
nature r large um you know it doesn't
seem like we have very good reason for
thinking that you know the desk on which
my computer sits right now is at self-
minded I don't think even at a common
sensical level but then um you know when
you start getting into more
scientifically informed empirical
details right um you know that there
does and here's where for me it is
always important to keep of the natural
scientific references biology and
especially neurobiology in mind that the
kinds of you know the forms of of
experience of mindedness of subjectivity
that we have as far as we know does
require a highly complex type of object
object the kind of peculiar entity that
is the human central nervous system in
all of its mindboggling you know
astronomical complexity right and you
know that does seem to be you know you
know it's I I certainly am open to the
idea of multiple realizability I think
that there are various physical systems
that you know could potentially or
actually instantiate something that we
might be willing to qualify as
mindedness um but I certainly don't
think that you know any old bu of atoms
you know molecules Etc you know are
going to generate that so I think that
mindedness is not universally
distributed across all of material
reality across the entire physical
Universe I don't really see any
compelling reason to accept that and in
fact you know I see a lot of both common
sensical and scientific reasons to
believe that no um there are only you
know these very small isolated instances
of material configurations and nature
that support mindedness for instance you
know the central nervous systems of
various organisms that we know of right
um but what I like about uh uh you know
chers in dealing with the hard problem
