the relatively narrow and restricted
parameters of the field of our conscious
awareness and so you know that's
something which you know Freud had to
argue for that now has been accepted dis
and has been accepted even by those who
have no truck with Freud who are
allergic or averse to him etc etc and
when you take seriously the idea that
the mental and the conscious are not
coextensive and that most of mental is
is it transpires below the threshold of
explicit self-awareness standard
philosophical models of the you know
libertarian free willed you know
reflective deliberating agent that acts
rationally on the basis of an accurate
assessment of its own self-interests Etc
something crucial for so much not just
of philosophy but you know for you know
you might say World Views outlooks Etc
that shap our laws our institutions our
social practices Etc and one of the
things that psychoanalysis and it's
aftermath in you know in our models of
the mind up through the present that
indicates is that that entire you know
basically early modern picture of the
self as agent of the rational individual
who reflectively deliberates about their
interests and may is able to know you
know what will for instance satisfy them
make them happy Etc and then setting
about doing that in the most practical
way possible blah blah blah all of that
just seems like frankly a wishful
thinking fiction right a a a distorted
picture of ourselves that H that has
long ago has been demolished by not just
Freud I mean you know again before and
Marx and N do quite a bit of damage to
that idea of the self or or of the you
know rational agent and you know and and
then you know up through the present you
have all of this you know frankly
empirical experimental natural
scientific
corroboration that aspects of what is is
detrimental to this you know picture of
of you know the the free willed you know
choosing rational agent that's Central
to you know liberalism to capitalism to
you know the entire social order we
inhabit is again a a basically a myth a
fiction a falsehood um and so you know
part of what I try to do in my work in
various ways is to draw attention to
that now the other thing is is with
cognitivist types like so one one issue
when we're talking especially about uh
the neurosciences is that we have to
remember that cognitivism is also not
coextensive with all the neurosciences
sometimes people get the impression that
research programs that come out of a
cognitivist
orientation um in the Sciences of the
brain are the only game intent town when
in fact um there since the 1990s
especially there's been enormous amount
of work done in an area now known as
affective Neuroscience with some of the
pioneering figures here being Yak PP
Antonio deasio Joseph Leo um uh you know
there's a range of authors working in
that orientation where what one looks at
is not um you know so much the brain's
manner of processing you know let's say
you know symbols Concepts Etc uh you
know making inferences so on and so
forth but that what's actually of
concern to affective neurosciences of
course looking at how emotional and
feeling states are very decisive for who
and what we are as the peculiar beings
that we human beings are and um you know
the the whole you know research set of
research programs that are ongoing in
aect of Neuroscience are proving to be
particularly genial to uh those
interested in neuros psychoanalysis and
in bringing um you know Freudian and
other analytic metap psychologies into a
kind of Cooperative relationship with uh
neurobiology and its findings um and
that you know in fact you know the
person here who I think has done you
know the most in this regard who's often
considered the founder of anglo-american
neuros pycho analysis is Mark SS and in
