contrast there between the two of them
and that you know is part of what you
know was lurking in the background there
of those lines that you read aloud right
this description of the abstract you
know conceptual violence done to Reality
by the human mind is a cardinal Fe
nature of you know hegel's account of
things and and for Hegel I mean often
times what we think is that you know
there's a very CR textbook misreading of
him that Hegel has his own version of
the distinction between understanding
and reason right Kant has his you know
Hegel takes the language from Kant but
but reworks it in certain ways and that
you know we often think that oh well the
understanding Allah Hegel is this um you
know black and white dualistic
dichotomizing style of cognition um that
seeks to impose you know these rigid
black and white distinctions upon a
reality that is of course much more
subtle and sophisticated than these
simplistic schemas and that when we move
from understanding to reason in Hegel
reason is where yes we dispense with the
the crude Simplicity of the black and
white dichotomies and divisions of the
understanding and all of that um is is
jettisoned in favor of somehow
registering all of the subtle shades of
of a multi-hued reality and all of its
richness Etc um and that we really just
want to move to reason and in so doing
just leave the understanding behind no
for Hegel is that without first doing
violence to reality without first um
imposing upon it these artificially
clear-cut black and white distinctions
and divisions that if we don't do that
it's not as though we can just simply
bypass that and directly commune with
reality and all of its vibrancy and
multifacetedness no it's that um were we
to you know not Avail ourselves or were
we to try and avoid that violent
dismembering of reality through the
abstractions of the understanding
instead of having reality in all of its
fullness we would be empty-handed right
we would just have nothing that the only
way to get to you know a richer reality
is by passing through its deliberate
impoverishment in terms of how we
categorize and conceptualize it and that
only after passing through that and
problematizing our categorizations and
conceptualizations of it will we get
closer to it but if we don't pass
through that dismembering violence of
the understanding we're not going to get
anywhere yeah perfect perfect I mean I'd
say again more of the analytic types
here's where I'd say you're you're a
carrying Bonafide heelan because it
seems a subject never fits into the
order of things where whereas a lot of
the the analytic philosophy they try to
bring the subject into the order of
things and fit it in whereas hegel's
point is that no the subject do violence
reality um and I should probably also
mention just for the for the listener uh
just uh between WFT and verse 10 this
this book you beautifully uh outline the
differences and you kind of demarcate
how it it differs to Hegel over Kant uh
sorry were you going to say something
Professor or oh I was also going to say
with that idea of not fitting into
reality the leanian idea of the subject
too as you know what forever finds
itself out of joint with or experiences
itself as alienated Visa reality right
and that part of what makes me a subject
is precisely that I never actually can
fully identify with or collapse myself
into any of my you know
determined identity categories in terms
of what I
as an organism as a social being as a
member of a particular you know
institution or group Etc that any
positive identification and of course we
inevitably have many of them that
nonetheless what my subjectivity is is
in part for a lanan that part of me that
never feels at ease in any of those that
uh you know is is that Restless sense of
