you know the the negativity of
autonomous subjectivity Alek is
sometimes that this is in a way like
with shelling but now in updated
terminology that this is a kind of
return in in ordinary non-quantum
reality of certain unruly aspects of the
quantum Universe right that it's as
though you have quantum physics is this
shadowy schellingian ground and then you
have the classical Universe we inhabit
of course resulting from things like the
collapse of the wave function as like
shing's existence and that when human
Freedom comes into play for xek I think
he sometimes tempted to take this
shellian shortcut and to say that well
that's in a sense something like Quantum
indeterminacy Etc um returning within
the constituted field of classical
non-quantum reality um and it to me one
of the ironies is is that for someone
who also of course in part thanks to his
Fidelity to things like German idealism
and dialectical
materialism for somebody who wants a
non-reductive account of subject ity um
you know this seems to be a remarkably
reductive move is to say essentially
that you know solving the problem of
human- mindedness or subjectivity um is
just simply a matter of you know we
could really say that the ultim the
smallest ultimate constituents of
physical reality are you know a sense
where we are to go looking for the basis
of what we call subjectivity I mean
that's you know of course you know a
hard-nosed you know physical
reductionist or eliminativist I don't
think ultimately we'd have too much of a
problem with that um but efforts to do
this I mean like you go back to
something like Roger penrose's work like
the emperor's new mind um you know to
the best of my knowledge nobody has
really gotten very far actually trying
to flesh out okay if you're going to
assert that there's some type of direct
connection between the quantum level and
then our subjectivity or mindedness well
there's it would seem you would need to
have the ability um to flesh that out at
the level of the relevant sciences and
as far as I know nobody is even remotely
close to being able to do that and so
you know maybe in the long run you know
decades centuries down the road assuming
we last that long as a species we'll get
around to you know we might be able to
flesh out those details and vindicate
something like the Shian speculative
hypothesis that would have it that you
know subjective freedom is is a kind of
return within the field of classical
reality of certain aspects of quantum
reality um you know that to me is
something that will require a very
patient wait and see Outlook and in the
meantime you know this is why I also say
well look if you're going to spend time
diving into the Natural Sciences in
relation specifically to a non-reductive
yet still compatible with materialism or
naturalism account of subjectivity
there's plenty of work to be done you
know starting at the level of
neurobiology which would seem to be the
natural scientific level closest to you
know what we're concerned with when
talking about mindedness and to work
those problems out um and again whether
or not there's going to be any
possibility of vindicating a speculative
hypothesis about a direct link between
you know our subjectivity and quantum
mechanics I just think that um there's
much that we can do for the time being
except wait and see you know how much uh
progress is made thanks to a huge amount
of collective scientific labor in
different fields over the decades and
you know further to you know and beyond
that uh to see whether or not that can
end up getting substantiated in any way
excellent Professor um in fact I'm not
going to ask you because you've
discussed this in many podcast as to why
you so prefer to stick to the uh the
cognitive neurosciences over you know
