his recent big book uh the Hidden Spring
from 2021 I think he does a marvelous
job showing how a combination of
psychoanalysis and affective
Neuroscience enables addressing like one
of the things he focuses on in that book
is David chambers's famous hard problem
of Consciousness and tackling that with
this different toolbox drawn from this
combination of Freudian psychoanalysis
with affective rather than cognitive
Neuroscience um as just like a nice
example of of what an effort along these
lines looks like that's you know and
this book is quite recent from 2021 and
you know highly recommended really well
worth reading to kind of flesh out some
of this perfect perfect yeah I also
particularly liked what you said about
the fact that the the unconscious it's
not this sort of chaotic Abyss it's
rather it's got own logic because I'd
say uh like a lot of uh you know
nonexperts NE fights who get into
psychoanalysis it tends to be through
generally by by by yungi and depth
psychology and then you see the ego and
then the the iceberg metaphor where
behind the scenes it's like this chaotic
mess of like of of the ID whereas with M
of the lenan tradition it's like it's
got its own logic and I think it's it's
important to understand that uh in fact
Professor I wasn't going to ask you this
but since you mentioned it I think it's
it's an apt Point um you know Todd
McGavin one of your fellow Travelers he
he beautifully articulates this idea of
the the politics of the death Drive the
fian Death Drive uh I'm curious just to
hear your thoughts on this this idea of
the the politics of the Dead dve
whenever I speak to anyone from a
psychoanalytic background I do I'd like
to ask that question given I think it's
something important for the discourse um
so yeah what are your what are your
thoughts on this idea of the the
politics of the death
drive my tendency is to want to say that
well there can be various ways of
politically
a appropriating and deploying the
psychoanalytic notion of the death Drive
um but of course you know even there
it's already complicated in terms of you
know if you look at the later Freud
starting in 1920 with beyond the
Pleasure Principle the text in which
Freud first introduces what at that
moment he presents as a highly
speculative hypothesis and you know he's
extremely hesitant and and kg in that
work uh but he puts forward this this
idea of the totus tlee of the death
drive and then if you
carefully uh examine the elaborations on
this notion that Freud engages in from
1920 you know to the end of his life in
the late
1930s honestly I think one would be
hardpressed to say that there is a
single enduring coherent welldefined
concept there instead you have a
shifting series of proposals some of
which hang together others I don't think
hang together too well and that in the
later Freud Death Drive almost names a
set of unresolved problems or
difficulties that Freud is focused on
orbiting around Etc but I don't think
ever manages to fully you know nail down
or tie up to his satisfaction um and you
know then you have of course certain
interpretations what the Death Drive is
in the leanian campus Etc and you know
to begin with for me it's very difficult
because I don't think there's any
interpretive consensus on exactly what
the correct account of the death Drive
is in Freud Andor Lan um but regardless
of those interpretive difficulties for
me the death drive like you know or any
other of Freud's fundamental
metapsychological
concepts can I think be you know
appropriated deployed Etc politically
but I don't think there's any kind of
inherent there's no politics inherent to
the metapsychology itself that's just
