there to be directly read off of it um
that you know if you take for instance
any number of the characteristics
associated with the Death Drive well we
could talk about for instance you know
aggression indifference to the Pleasure
Principle Etc as operative in various
political phenomena situated anywhere
across the Spectrum um you know whether
on the right or the left Etc um and so
so um you know I I do tend to be myself
um a little hesitant to talk about you
know the the politics of the death Drive
well which politics um you know again I
don't think that I think that instead
something like Freudian Drive Theory or
leanian drive theory for that matter as
a metapsychological framework can be
productively utilized to
explain um and and account for certain
political phenomena that that we observe
I mean in my recent book infinite greed
you know looking at linian accounts of
drive and desire as relevant to
understanding what Marx talks about as
the logic of capital in terms of the
fundamental um kind of motivational
structure of the capitalist mode of
production at a trans individual uh you
know social level um but uh you know the
death you know and there something like
the Death Drive is helpful for
understanding aspects of the logic of
capital but it also of course can be
helpful for understanding instances that
might involve radical left revolutionary
sequences at different in different
times and places in history Etc so you
know my my position has always been that
you know metapsychology and politics are
two different things that you know you
can map them on to each other but um I I
always resist efforts to talk about any
kind of inherent
political upshot uh you know message or
conclusion built into the structure of
psychoanalytic metapsychology I don't
think that metapsychology itself is
inherently political I think it can be
used in political analysis but that's to
me something different I'm not sure if
that answers the question or not but
well I claim that it's not normative in
the sense that you you don't want to
prescribe any kind of yeah perfect
perfect yeah yeah that's right it's
purely descriptive and given its pure
descriptive nature there's a neutrality
to it at the prescriptive level I mean
there's no yeah you can't just read off
anything normative or prescriptive
directly from it I see perfect perfect
thank you for clarifying that Professor
all right uh I want to talk about uh
transcendental materialism in fact uh I
am hoping to do your book uh adventures
in transcendal materialism in a small
book club that I run and we hoping uh
starting next year maybe on Jan Feb to
do a book study on that but however I
came across uh the term in uh your your
book JX onology um in the first book I
read by you um in fact a couple of years
ago so I've kind of Forgotten most of it
uh nonetheless if you could Prof I have
two oh yes you oh you have two there you
go it's a good thing you've written it
down then you you have some record of
that's right that's
right uh well uh in any case um yeah if
you could so uh you know this for me it
it really when when you introduce your
theory of materialism it I I felt like
this is it this is exactly what I've
always thought about this idea of you
subject object divide and especially I
don't know if you've been following
again from the analytic tradition
there's a lot of talk you know discourse
around there's like a Resurgence of pan
psychism or or yes you know the kind of
idealism where everything is
consciousness orot lot of discourse but
I realize that there it's always
something that that misses where I feel
like I feel like that captures feel like
uh transcendal materialism does capture
that bit that it misses within this you
know So-Cal object subject divide but uh
yeah if you could just uh explicate to a
