using it in a way it didn't evolve for
and that's where we get into trouble and
and and and we call that smart I mean
it's quite interesting when you really
think about it because you know every
every other species in in you know on
this planet would normally stress as an
an escape mechanism a survival mechanism
right to a to a clear and present danger
we we tend to to create threats uh that
are not even sensed by the amigdala if I
understand that correctly they're really
generated in the prefrontal cortex and
then affecting our stress response which
is not smart at all when you really
think about it no and would make no
sense at all to some other species I if
you sit down a a hippo and try to
describe be fears about the planet
warming or whatever and that's causing
you to secrete this particular stress
hormone it would make no sense at all or
the fact that you're doing it when
you're stuck in traffic or when you're
thinking about mortality or when you're
any such psychologically it is just
unprecedented in the history of like
animals running around on this planet to
be smart enough to be able to make
yourself sick just by thinking or
feeling or remembering so I I quoted you
in the book actually my co-author Alice
quoted you in the book uh you know from
why zeas don't get ulcers uh and the
idea that that animals will just suspend
the stress response uh as soon as the
threat is gone right they'll shake their
bodies and they're done right uh
we we keep we keep it going we keep we
we even increase it a little we add a
bit of drama and a bit of you know our
previous trauma and as as you
beautifully stated in so much of your
work we may even go back genetically to
things that happened tens of thousands
of years ago and include that in our
genetic uh makeup and and basically just
create a massive problem out of nothing
that exists in the current moment at
all yeah exactly in a way that is just
bizarre and unprecedented again my book
I wrote about stress and why zebras
don't get ulcers uh metaphor but zebras
is just your prototypical Beast running
around in the grasslands and such and
it's sitting there eating grass minding
its own business a lion suddenly leaps
out the zebra runs for its life like
crazy has a mass massive stress resp
response and good luck for the zebra
escapes and the lion gives up and
disappears and you go look at the zebra
two minutes later and clearly the only
thing in its brain at that point is what
to make of this blade of grass versus
that blade of craft just it's gone it's
gone the the capacity for just
anticipatory stress and especially
stress anticipatory stress responses for
things that never really happened um
that's where our problems come from I
mean it seems simple like when you think
about it
logically yeah if if it hasn't happened
I don't need to stress about it yet but
we're so bad at that so teach us how do
we change this well we're very very
smart and showing where we could get
into trouble is our smartness is not
just purely cognitive it has big
emotional contents to it and we're the
only species out there that could read a
book and when the the protagonist dies
at the
end you're devastated you're you're
emotionally overwrought you could sit
there and you could watch a frightening
movie and you can have a massive stress
response despite the fact that you're
sitting there and wait those really are
not they don't exist those are fictional
characters those are actors playing them
they're computer generated images you're
getting upset about
pixels it's wild that we're capable of
doing that um and it's wild that we can
thus have a stress
response as abstract as reading about
something that's happening to refugees
on the other side of the planet and it's
