both cases whoa we're a species where we
have a range of a capacity of pleasure
that's just thousandfold bigger than any
other species out there how do we have a
brain that could do that the only way is
some of the time the dopamine system
going from zero to 100 a 100 is hearing
a good line of poetry or solving a
coding problem and some of the time
going from zero to 100 is winning the
lottery or whatever you have to
constantly be resetting the gain on your
system correct on your dopamine system
yeah and it needs to be able to an inst
say okay right now we're doing 0 to 100
for the smell of flowers oh no right now
instead we're doing 0 to 100 for doing a
stock option an IPO or whatever and you
got and it needs to be able to reset it
needs to be able to habituate very
quickly and out of that comes what I
think is one of like the deepest sources
of human misery which is you get some
amazing reward from out of nowhere
yesterday
and it's wonderful you've got a massive
release of dopamine and today the same
reward is going to feel like what you're
entitled to yeah and tomorrow it's going
to feel like it's not enough because
your system is constantly re so we're
always hungry and the more we eat the
hungrier we get and the more we want and
the more we want because we're
constantly saying oh now it's this big
of a gain on the system we have going
from zero to 100 is the fact that we as
humans can do dopamine for both poetry
and eating a meal when you're
desperately hungry or if you're a
certain type of human giving food to
somebody who's desperately hungry that's
that range that what was amazing
yesterday is what we feel like we
deserve today and it's not going to be
good enough
tomorrow and and accordingly of course
being aware of that I think is the is
the whole idea it's it's not clicking on
Amazon to buy a new thing every minute
to get yourself a little kick it's
actually falling in love with the thing
that you have or actually finding the
thing that would really give you Joy
before you click right and and it is it
is quite a challenge for most of us who
are trained by the modern world to just
want more and more and more and
more and we're a very vulnerable species
because people who are very smart and
very well trained understand exactly how
to make you feel that way for whatever
the next new thing is whether it's a new
car or a new spouse or a new name or a
new persona or a new whatever there
there's a very well understood science
for making us feel hungrier and less
satisfied with whatever it is we have
right now the bit of your work of V last
year uh in determined
that I'm still really struggling with to
be honest is that from an a biological
point of
view your view is that we have very
little choice if any choice at all like
you know the the the the reason I like
your work so much is not something that
I had any choice in you know the way I
was raised the the you know the events
that happened that conditioned me the
way my parents were before I was even
born and so on determined where I am as
a human which you know I I I have to say
mathematically is very accurate right uh
but but at the same time I sort of
recall times in my life where I really
resisted my nature and and I really
tried to you know to do what I'm not
biologically designed to do so you know
in determined uh you you're saying we
don't even have that which I think is a
bit uh
a bit disappointing that I have
no I have no control on what I choose at
all well I I should emphasize like the
the book is called determined the
science of life without Free Will and I
don't think there's any free will
whatsoever and my argument is when you
look at where a behavior comes from it's
