planet okay dopamine um it's usually
functioning as a neurotransmitter but it
is a hormone some of the time dopamine
it's about reward it's about pleasure
cocaine works on the dopamine system all
that's what people used to know yeah and
then people figured out as you were
saying
dopamine usually it's not about reward
or pleasure it's about the anticipation
of it you get somebody and you have
trained them to do some task they get a
little signal saying okay this task has
begun
and if you press a lever 10 times now
you're going to get a reward and what
everybody used to think in the past is
when you get the reward that's when the
dopamine gets released from reward
centers in your brain and what turns out
instead is whether you are a human or a
monkey or a rat or whatever when do you
get the dopamine when the signal comes
on saying it's one of these moments if
you press the lever now you're going to
get a reward as soon as you realize it's
one of those moments that's when the
dopamine comes you're sitting there and
you're saying this is going to be
fantastic this is great I know how to
press levers I know exactly how to do
this sort of thing I'm on top of it this
is going to be great it's about
anticipation it's about the motivation
you then feel to press the lever and all
of that it's that's what it's about okay
so that's great it's about the pursuit
of pleasure
rather than the pleasure itself it's
about the
anticipation and we could do really
amazing things as humans in terms of how
much we can keep dopamine going in
anticipation it's what causes us to
function along those lines I wanted to
interrupt because you you mentioned a
quote at the time that was
so uh profound you said it wasn't the
pursuit of happiness it's the happiness
of the
Pursuit and that's exactly it yes yeah
we're looking we're looking for when
when we're under the the the influence
of dopamine if I could call it the
influence what you're doing is you're
just it's not even about getting the
thing that makes you feel high it's
about anticipating that you're going to
get it yep
and sometimes that's great because that
makes you work hard your entire life to
bring about some massive project or
whatever and sometimes it's about things
that are never going to happen sometimes
we could do stuff that no other species
can we can have dopamine released in
part of our brain for anticipation and
motivation for entire lifetime because
we think there's going to be an amazing
reward of some kind after we die what
the afterlife like that could be the
version of so that's one version of how
bizarre it is
but I think the even more fundamental
strange thing we do with dopamine is you
know you you look at a chimpanzee and
what counts as the sort of things it
could anticipate maybe food or sex or
safety or getting to beat up somebody
they're feeling Vengeance about it
that's a pretty small list of things
that could be a source of pleasure or
anticipatory pleasure and what do we
have as humans we can feel anticipatory
pleasure
about food and sex and survival and all
of that but we can we can feel that way
over reading poetry we can have a sense
of pleasure over smelling a flower over
solving a math problem if you're the
right type of crazy human so you know
any I am that guy for sure yes exact
like whoa we're a species where you can
have like a massive release of dopamine
when you smell the first flowers of
spring and then 20 minutes later a
massive release of dopamine because of
an
orgasm and the amazing is you release
the same amount of dopamine a lot in
