and that one moment was not within your
free will it just happened to you and
then you can choose to take that and
reconfigure your entire life with a lot
of
neuroplasticity over time to get to the
right place um the the the reason I
asked this question and and I know by
the way I with with a ton of respect uh
Robert what I normally do is I make the
most amazing conversations I have on
that podcast shorter because I encourage
my listeners to go back and listen to
them again so as much as I would like to
speak to you for six more hours i' i' i'
I'd ask your permission to perhaps maybe
grant me another opportunity to invite
you and have another conversation and
one more question and we close this one
um the one of the things that really
really really uh got to me is that if we
take our
individual um you know Destiny if you
want to call it but biological Destiny
you know the from the womb to to a
million years before or two what happens
3 seconds ago determines our neural
response to something and you take that
cumulatively to our world today and it
seems to me that our world is heading in
the direction of more of the violence
more of the competitiveness more of the
US versus them as a cumulative species
species and and with that determinism in
a in a very interesting way uh it it
sometimes feels like we can't even
impact that anymore that you know there
will be more Wars there will be more
economic challenges that are creating
gaps between the rich and the poor and
so on and so forth do you believe that
to be true is there is there a way to
change that at
all yes you can do it if you turned out
to be the right sort of person by going
and reading history and realizing oh in
a place like Western Europe 300 years
ago would have seemed okay for a
5-year-old to be worked to death in a
factory and it's a different world now
wow the world changed it we could get it
from historical evidence or if you the
sort of person where what does it for
you is to read about somebody else's
amazing acts of compassion and making
the world better or if you're the right
sort of person you can look at a point
where you thought I wouldn't be able to
do I can't do that that's too much but I
did that I succeeded I was able I have
the power to do like and maybe you have
become the sort of person who could
reflect enough to figure out which of
those are the types of experiences you
should go try to experience because you
know that's the sort of thing that makes
me feel more of this and makes me feel
more empowered and makes me feel and
like to go
read about the how they managed to get
the Good Friday truce in Northern
Ireland and ended violent conflict there
that seemed impossible to ever end and
whoa like that's po there's reasons to
be op or the time you were about to be a
jerk and cut somebody off in traffic and
you had this thought and you decided to
you know let them in to be wow think
about how you
felt figure out what it is that did that
for you because you could make a
difference and I think what the
underpinning is of that is like every
other living species out there we're
just biological machines but we're the
only ones who could know that we are
biological machines and learn where the
buttons are and where
the read the manual and realize if I
press this button again I'm going to
feel this way even more because I'm
going to have more examples to draw
upon and go and do that go figure out
what it is that gives you hope in a
world in which there's so many reasons
not to and you know my guess is there's
an awful lot of people who will use you
as an example for precisely that and
thus their biological machines can work
different L afterward and feel a sense
