comes with fine print comes with
conditions as to who we could feel it
for here's here's another study that I
love showing you know just
how terrible things can be with us as a
species um you take somebody there's a
part of the brain called the anterior
singulate cortex um and it's got a lot
to do with empathy it's the part of the
brain you you put somebody in a brain
scanner and you poke their finger with a
pin and a whole bunch of areas in your
brain activate and one area is saying
that's my finger that's not my toe and
another area is saying that's a sharp
pain that's not an abrasive pain and an
area like the anterior singulate is
saying oh what does that pain mean to me
what's the interpretation I'm giving to
it and if it's a very aversive
interpretation it will activate it's I
don't like this I am made to feel
stressed unhappy unsafe whatever okay so
now you put somebody in a brain scanner
and you don't poke their finger with a
pin make them watch their loved one have
their finger poked with a pin and the
part of the brain that says ooh that's
your finger not your toe it doesn't
activate because it's not your finger
and it's not your toe and it doesn't say
it's not a sharp paint it's not it's not
telling you anything like that but the
anterior singulate activates because
it's the part of the brain where you're
also feeling somebody else's pain wow
that's a there's neurons there that can
not tell the difference between your
pain and somebody else's but now you
look at a study where you put somebody
in a brain scanner and they're looking
at a little film clip and they see
somebody's hand and they're seeing a
needle poked into the hand and is needle
goes in you just squinted you just
exactly were oh my God I can't even look
at that and all of that and then you
look at the experiment and if the hand
has a skin color that is not your own on
the average the anterior singula doesn't
activate as much in your average test
subject you don't feel their pain as
much jesz you make the skin color purple
and it has no effect because you're
saying oh for some reason
they're messing around with like the
computer Graphics or something here but
oh my God that would hurt so much no
make it realistic and it depends on
Whose pain whose face whose skin whose
circumstance and that's the thing with
us on a certain you know neurobiological
level it's the most straightforward
thing in the world oo tell me what the
brain is doing when you pull a trigger
and I can tell you the exact
neurobiology of the command going to
these muscles calling causing it to what
cont contrast rather than extend or
whatever and it's it's always the same
but if you're pulling that trigger doing
something appalling or if you're pulling
that trigger doing something suicidally
Brave to draw fire on yourself to save a
bunch of other it's the exact same you
know male Act it's the same and it has
such different if you move your hand to
put it on top of somebody else's that
could be a moment of great empathy and
compassion that could be a moment of
enormous betrayal of a loved one and
it's all context wow it's not the it's
not the action it's the meaning of the
action and boy is that complicated when
it comes to us as humans at the end of
the day though it is a it's interior
singular that is basically telling me I
I can relate to another human and that
also could be uh which I I don't
remember which book you mentioned that
in uh can be altered with stress so if
if 2 minutes before I was feeling
stressed because I was in the traffic
jam uh I would actually have less uh uh
um empathy to another human's pain
because of my
stress exactly which is Thoroughly
discouraging and totally familiar yeah
when the world is horribly stressful um
your your sort of landscape Your Horizon
