wild that is species we can be smart
enough that we send a drone off and we
kill somebody whose face we have never
seen we have this capacity to abstract
our emotions over space and time like
nothing else out there for better or
worse how do we stop that we're just
another primate in some ways we've got
the same blueprint going on in our heads
for how we feel empathy but if you're a
baboon out in the annah in East Africa
um the empathy you feel is maybe for a
member of your group who's having a hard
day um it depends on who they are and
whether you're friends with them and
what's in it for you and that sort of
thing and it's a very good thing that we
instead can feel empathy for somebody on
the other side of the planet or somebody
whose life experiences are completely
different from and we're able to see the
commonality and we're able to walk a
mile in their shoes and that some of the
time that enormous capacity to feel
somebody else's pain um thank God we're
smart enough as a species to do that
that could be a very good thing when
it's something we have no control over
when it's something that's purely in our
heads when it's something that's driven
by you know emotional needs on our part
that are purely selfish or heartless or
some such thing you know then you're
having a emotional responses that are
nothing but humans at their worst what
can we do you know in terms of Stress
Management tell the difference between
what you can control and what you can't
tell the difference
between information about the world
around you um that is act actually
useful rather than merely stress
inducing um tell the difference between
real sources of social court and people
who turn out to be just acquaintances or
worse than that you know and recognize
that all of those are difficult slow
processes to get good at a lot of people
will say how how can I be calm when um
when there is so much Injustice in the
world when there is a child uh you know
that fell in a well all the way in
Morocco but it's still a child anyway
right I need to be informed formed of
that stuff Mo I need to be you know
aware of it I need to find my humanity
and my heart in relating to
it well it's wonderful if that's the
only way you could do that um it's
counterproductive if it leaves you in an
ulcerated mess of anxiety depression
things of that sort because those tend
to be disorders of
incapacitation um it's not productive if
the empathy you feel for somebody else
is so painful that all you can think
about is how to reduce your own pain in
that circumstance which empathy is not a
virtue in and of itself empathy is a
wonderful thing only in so far as it
moves you to act
compassionately and if instead it causes
you to flee this is not a very good
thing I love these studies that have
shown the following okay so you're
looking at
somebody in trouble somebody in pain
somebody whatever and you were feeling
empathy for them and the question
becomes is this a predictor of you're
going to actually be able to reach out
and help them or is it going to become
too painful for you and you have to
pretend it's somebody else's job and oh
I couldn't make a difference anywhere
and there's two ways of predicting it on
two very different levels of getting at
how brains work that ultimately wind up
being the exact same thing on the
psychological level do you sit there and
say oh my God what if that were
happening to me that would be so awful
that's a predictor that's going to get
so painful for you that you're going to
decide I need to look away on the other
hand if you're sitting there saying oh
my God imagine how painful it is for
that person experiencing it that's a
ictor of having enough Detachment that
you could actually act
