welcome back everyone uh my guest today
uh is uh one of those that I call a
sensei in my heart even though I have
never uh met them in person Dr uh Robert
Sapori is definitely one of my big
teachers Robert is a neuroscientist he's
a a primatologist uh with countless
numbers of books I actually don't even
know if I read all of them uh but I can
always tell you that the ones I read I
absolutely love of course behave
determined why zebras don't get ulcers
fabulous piece of work a primates Memoir
the trouble with testosterone I loved
that idea uh so many of them uh truly
truly enlightening uh Robert at uh at
the bottom of my heart is the person
that basically tells us
how biology makes you the human that you
are so so that link between biology and
uh and our Behavior Uh I don't think has
ever been uh summarized as well as it
has been by my guest today Dr Robert
sapolsky this is part of our minseries
on stress in preparation uh for unstress
to be released in the US uh 30th of
April and uh in international English in
the UK on the 9th of May uh unstress is
a big uh effort on my side to take a
million people out of stress every year
as part of the 1 billion happy Mission
uh so please uh do give it a chance uh
go do your pre-orders if you want if you
do pre-order uh keep your pre-order uh
receipt go to unstress b.com and come to
our uh opening seminar uh uh on 28th of
April uh with no further Ado I have been
looking for this forever Robert as I as
I told you before we started the best
thing about having a podcast is those
moments Where You Meet Your Heroes so
thank you for being
here well thank you for having me on
this is a very nice way to start off the
morning so much appreciated it is
definitely a very good way for me to
start uh you know next week so that's uh
that's how how important this is for me
so so Robert I I'd like to start with um
where where I where I you know was
wishing to to include you in this series
was to start with the biology of stress
and how how stress actually works within
um you know humans from a biological
point of view stress seems to be this
very uh un understood thing for people
who are feeling stressed it seems so
unpredictable uh but if we do if we
truly understand the biology it's a lot
more predictable than we think it is so
maybe start as there and then we we flow
to the more interesting sides of it well
I guess for me the most critical thing
in terms of making sense of humans and
stress and stress related disease um is
of course just how bizarre of a species
we are uh evolutionarily something I'm
always struck by is you know you go back
a hundred million years and there was
some sunny afternoon somewhere where
some tiny dinosaur was being chased by a
predatory one and the little one was
running for its life the big one was
running for its meal and you know highly
stressed moment and what astonishes me
is the certainty with which we know that
both of those dinosaurs were secreting
the exact same stress hormone that we
still doing these days um or something
very close structurally to it something
like cortisol or
hydrocortisone um the fact that the
stress response is this ancient piece of
WI ing in us it's like the basic
building blocks are the same in US
vertebrates mammals
reptiles fish amphibians birds so on
everybody out there has roughly the same
one and it's been around forever and
it's always solving the same problem
which is
some emergency where you are running for
your life and everything comes down to
what happens in the next two minutes and
what did we evolve we evolve the
capacity as smart primates to secrete it
in response to psychological stress and
chronic psychological stress and
thinking about some horror going on on
the other side of the planet and we're
