compassionately so
interesting yes and then physiologically
it's the exact same thing you sit there
and you look at this other person in
pain and if you have a massive increase
in your heart rate and your blood
pressure that's a predictor that it's
all all going to be much too much and
you've got too much of a stress response
and the pain you need to deal with at
that point is the pain you are feeling
if you could sit there and
physiologically be a little bit detached
that's the predictor that you're going
to be able to work on their pain rather
than your own this ability to get a
little bit of
distance it's you know every time you
have a
pediatrician that could give a child a
vaccine and the child is screaming when
pain over it and all of that and the
pediatrician nonetheless has developed
the skills of Detachment to know I'm
actually saving this child's life by
doing this you're seeing that principle
in
action so so that the this this is so
eye openening to be honest because in
the last few you know in the last many
months actually probably over two years
now because of the nature of my work all
over the world uh you know you see that
the current events in the world are
leading to massive massive um
engagements on social media and you know
anger and uh and comments and you know
people believing that if you're not
commenting on one side then you're on
the other side and so on and so forth
which interestingly I I tended to always
tell people that which I think aligns
with your first comment that you know a
comment you know is only valuable if it
makes a difference and accordingly
empathy should lead you to engage in
ways that make diff a difference but
you're also but when when you saying it
now I've actually noticed that a lot of
the shouting is not about the victims a
lot of the shouting is about the
screamer exactly so it's it's basically
I am angry that this is happening in the
world it is an issue for me it's not
that I have an empathy for the victim I
am directing my anger at the world uh
because because I because it serves me
to to to vent that anger right uh what
what you're saying is the predictor is I
am actively engaged to alleviate the
suffering of the victim that's the kind
of empathy that we're looking
for yeah and what that often requires is
for us to do something that's very
difficult in terms of feeling empathy
what are the easiest circumstances for
somebody to feel empathy and act
compassionately if it's for somebody who
is
nearby psychologically or literally
somebody who seems like a me seems like
an us somebody who you can identify with
and somebody whose troubles is something
you could imagine something that is
comprehensible to you and thus we Face
our toughest challenges which is to feel
empathy for somebody who is very distant
in some form or other psychologically
and way different than us and people who
count as someone like me and who has a
problem that is way different from
anything you've ever had to deal with
and what we have here is a prescription
for why it is so much easier to feel the
Pains of ingroup members for people who
count as an us rather than a them and
that's where the biggest challenge is
because the world is full of people
where we have to work very hard to try
to imagine the world from their persp
perspective I've waited to meet you for
a long time so let me tell you why I
find your work so intriguing because I
often respond the first time I hear some
of your extreme comments with a no in my
mind I go like no no that that doesn't
make sense like I I don't like this
right or I don't want to align with this
and then you listen to it again and then
you go like but there is so much almost
