team that they would kill for and they
would die for and they're a fan of that
team and all of that and there's the
soccer team that's the hated enemy and
the Rival and all of that and now you're
flashing up faces once again for this
person in the brain scanner and each one
of these faces is wearing a cap either
with the logo of your home team or the
logo of the hated enemy team and now
your amydala is responsing to is
responding to the Hat they're wearing
the amigdala doesn't care about skin
color who is an us and who is a them it
has changed in a fr action of a second
we're constantly changing our categories
with that so it is very very innate in
us I think exactly as you say along the
lines of you know millions of years ago
as to divide the world into us and them
and to not like the thems but who counts
of them we could change in a second's
notice with symbolic stuff with things
like that God oh my God I mean what
would do to Shadow you for a day what
what how do you come up with those
experiments well no I I did not do those
experiments I I I I mostly have just
done things to rats and and monkeys and
I have not done a whole lot to actual
humans but no this is reading
astonishingly good work by lots and lots
of colleagues out there but they're
amazing ones because they show but then
look at look at like the world around us
somebody calls you up on the phone and
says hi I'm on the other side of the
world and a kid has just fallen in a
river and I'm thinking about jumping and
to save them but if I do that like I've
got my airplane ticket back home this is
like ancient times where like it was
actual piece of paper I've got my
airplane to if I jump in the river it's
going to disintegrate and it's going to
to be ruined and I'm going to need money
to buy a new plane ticket will you give
me the money for that and you'll say oh
you know that's kind
of I I I I would love to but here's the
reason why yet if you were standing
there in that same moment on the edge of
that River and you saw this kid whose
face you have never seen before and
they've fallen in there and everyone's
saying oh my God and there's a decent
chance that you would be the person who
jumps into the river to save the child
wait a second you were unwilling to like
pay for a plane ticket on the other side
of the planet to in effect save this
child's life but if it's right there in
front of you this child feels like
you're and its
context it's this crazy sort of thing
where in the moment whose pain just rips
us to
shreds and very
enormously and you'll never see that
child again and you had never seen them
before and that child may have belief
systems that are utterly alien to you
but for that Split Second and for that
Split Second the empathy overrides all
of that if you're one of the ones who
has that capacity to do that and it
depends on who you are and who they are
and if you've gotten a good night's
sleep and how you were raised and raised
to hate and yeah and it's very dependent
on
context I mean I can't help but think
that this is so magnified by our modern
world though I mean when you really
think about the idea of the hats and and
how who who you define as your tribe and
who's the enemy uh and and look at
social media and how social media
divides us into those you know if you
look at if you look at that idea of the
distant uh uh um you know events in the
world even if they're affect ing many
but they're not within your domain or
within your neighborhood uh and and how
you would feel differently about them
and how mainstream media is is playing
that card in a in a very interesting way
and and and you have to you have to
recognize how much more stressed we
become because of the way the modern
