of
efficacy um that they didn't before and
thus they Free Will lacking biological
machines who could now go make the world
a better place because of
you
that's wow I mean you see this is this
is why I always I never resist any of
your views anymore I just investigate
them a little more you see this is the
whole point we started at a the
conversation that said this biological
machine can trigger amazing things can
trigger empathy and can trigger evil it
can trigger violence it can trigger
everything and that while the entire
configuration of your machine is the
result of a
million probably a gazillion little
triggers that that you never had any
control over you can reconfigure that
machine by actually finding out exactly
how it's working right now and and and
then finding out how it's behaving right
now and then slowly using your strength
to to to be basically become a better
contribution to this world and to
yourself and to others and it to me this
is fascinating in every possible way I
mean uh I I have to say I I really want
to end here if you if you'll allow me to
say to do this uh give you more time but
also give our listeners the opportunity
to listen to this twice instead of
listening to a longer conversation that
there were so many so many gold nuggets
in this conversation that I think would
change lives so uh guys if you're
listening please do uh go back and and
take the time to listen to this again uh
Robert what an honor thank you so much
for your time for everything that you
contribute so uh
simply uh you know even though it has a
massive depth be you know underneath it
so I'm really grateful for your time and
for you being here well thank you and
and you've just taken the words out of
my mouth of exactly what I would say to
you
so it's it's an honor it's an honor here
you're very very kind um I I hope you'd
allow me the opportunity to host you
again and maybe you have another
conversation I'd be delighted to and for
all of you listening this has definitely
been one of my favorites you know me
when I am really into a conversation I'd
really urge you to go and listen to this
I'd really urge you to share it with a
lot of people and I'd really urge you to
read uh Dr uh uh Robert's work it's just
so eye openening challenging to our uh
our main ways of wanting to believe that
we are at first but so so deep and so
valuable underneath uh at the end of the
day we are a biological machine that is
highly affected by the stresses of this
world uh but we can actually uh have
make a difference if we understand how
the machine really works uh uh part of
that of course is what I always Advocate
every single week to take a tiny bit of
time to slow down and reflect and learn
oh and yeah before I go uh I just want
to remind you to go pre-order unstress
it would really help me spread the
message if you pre-order pre-orders uh
tend to count for the first week of
sales and the book industry is quite
interesting because it's only the first
week of sales that really matters to put
you on a bestseller list uh my mission
uh with Alice this time is a million
people out of stress so your pre-order
will make a difference uh keep your
pre-order receipt uh go to unstress
possible.com and register so that you
can uh come and join us in our uh launch
webinar for two hours uh me and Alice
where we will explain the main Concepts
and allow you uh to ask us as many
questions as you want uh as I say always
take a few minutes to slow down reflect
go back and listen uh to uh Robert's uh
conversation today I think you'll find
it very very useful I love you all for
listening and I will see you next
time
