brutal truth in it you know it's like I
I I feel that in your work you're like I
don't care how it's going to make you
feel it's just what the science says
really right and and so you know you
might as well take it from me get angry
if you want but it is what it is right
and and when you when it when you when
you remember your TED Talks around five
six years ago uh the first one uh yeah
it was so intriguing I don't recall it
exactly now because it was a long time
ago but it was I think it was watch 20
million times or so and and you start to
address violence and and the idea that
somehow for some of us some violence is
good and some violence is horrible okay
and and it's the same person and you
know you you you you'd it's almost like
what you see in the movies when when the
bad guy is killed you're happy when the
good guy is killed you're upset right or
you know you sort of almost at the end
of the movie you want the bad guy to
suffer before he dies right and and
that's so inhuman in an interesting way
but it speaks to the tricks that our
biology play on us would you would you
be would you care to mention that a
little bit well it's part of our
enormous vast complexity um in that
humans there's this paradoxical thing
about us without question we are the
most Mis ably violent species on this
planet and it's horrifying and without
question we are the most compassionate
empathic Cooperative altruistic species
on this planet and often it's the same
person who's capable of those extremes
often it's the same behavior at the same
time and it's in the eye of the beholder
we have this enormous human capacity to
do good in some settings and bad in
others and what is challenging for me is
the similarities underneath when we're
looking at us at our best and at our
worst we have moments where we can act
with strong emotions to stop someone
from doing what they're doing and in one
setting that's an absolutely appalling
act and in another setting it's a
greatly humanitarian one and what that
tells us is for example we don't don't
hate violence we hate the wrong kind of
violence when it's the right kind we
love it we leap up we're excited we pay
money to see it in a movie we give out
medals for the person who has done it
and saved innocent people or whatever
and in the same way we approve of love
we don't do it in all cases because when
it's the wrong kind we are appalled when
it is someone who loves the wrong person
who brings them tremendous pain when it
is someone who loves inflicting pain we
don't uniformly hate hatred and we don't
uniformly love love because they're
context dependent damn we've got
complicated brains
going and you and you go that layer
deeper and suddenly all of the all of
the romantics realize that it's not you
know uh one size fits all and all of the
you know of the violent ones realize
it's not the one size fits all but
I I have to say the first time I heard
you say this it really took me a very
long time because I I hate violence a
lot more than I like it I mean uh uh
when when you're when you're speaking
now you you always hit that thing that I
cannot disagree with right so you know
if if someone saves an innocent Life by
using violence well I'm going to have to
I'm going to have to approve of that
actually celebrate that right uh but but
but I tend to to say say if we ever
revert to violence it has to be the very
very L resource right however having
said that I think I think the reality of
the matter is that the species in
general I think since the Gladiator
years has has been quite celebratory of
violence in in so many ways which again
gets me back to the to the biology right
like why are we like that why do humans
approve of what empathetically they
wouldn't want for
themselves
because our capacity for empathy um
