as to who counts as someone whose pain
you feel becomes very local and very
narrow and very parochial and very built
around people who look like me or pray
like me or love like me or eat food like
me or or any such thing like that it
becomes very very local and what's
research has shown sort of my lab about
a decade ago we did a collaboration
showing with this that part of what goes
on during stress when you feel less of a
capacity for empathy is this class of
stress hormones cortisol
glucocorticoids um are working in the
brain and part of involves the anterior
singulate and makes it more more selfish
and more focused on his own needs and
you know translating out into
neurobiology it makes it neurons they
less responsive to stimuli to somebody
else's pain it makes the threshold much
much higher stress does that stress
makes some people at their best and I
think what we've seen you know
flagrantly since the start of the
pandemic is it brings out the worst in
an awful lot of people and fear does
that and anxiety and pain and insecurity
and uncertainty and a sense of
helplessness and hopelessness it brings
out the best in some of us but it does
awful things to an awful lot of people
and that's the neurobiology about why a
brain that is very very stressed is a
brain that has a whole lot of trouble
feeling the pain of somebody who counts
as a them rather than as an
us do you think this is from an
evolutionary biology point of view like
sort of we we survived because of our
tribal come together somehow so I need
to be closer I need to care more about
those who are like me and I need to
protect them more and so on but those
who are further away you know they could
be the enemy or at least not related to
my
survival yes but in such an interesting
way when it gets to us okay this is this
is like the most depressing literat out
there take volunteers you put them in a
brain scanner once again it always seems
like these depressing stories the first
sentence is always you put somebody in a
brain scanner so you got somebody in
there and you're flashing up pictures of
faces and you flash up the face of
somebody of A different race and in
about 75% of people there's activation
of the amydala the amydala a part of the
brain having to do with fear and anxiety
and aggression okay that's awful what's
even more awful is the amydala activates
in under 100th of a second in a fraction
of a second what thought even begins
before you even consciously know what
you are looking at your visual
processing system has a shortcut that
sends information to the amydala the
amydala knows what you were looking at
if it's an emotional arousing thing it
knows it before you were even
consciously aware of it by about a half
second or so oh my God that's the most
depressing thing on Earth because it
activates in response to the face of
somebody who's a them oh my are we are
we innately wired for racism for example
and the answer to that is that's the
craziest thing on Earth because you take
a non-human primate and you show them a
picture of the face of them somebody
from an outg group or and their igula
activates you show this has been around
for millions and millions of years and
races in so far as that's even like a
scientifically valid concept races are
only about 30,000 and 40,000 years old
or so like nobody ever used to encounter
somebody who looked very different from
them we're
hardwired to divide the world between us
and them but it's really really easy to
manip ulate us as to who counts as in us
and who counts as in them and this is
shown in the followup studies now you
take somebody you put them in a brain
scanner and you get somebody who is a
sports fanatic they're a soccer fan and
they have their home team their soccer
