from your neurons that did something
half a second ago but it's also from the
environmental stimuli in the last three
minutes that triggered those neurons and
it's your hormone levels from this
morning and it's whether you had this
trauma or this wonderful event a year
ago and it's your childhood and your
fetal life and your genes and the
culture and all of that and my argument
of there being no free will is when you
look at how all those pieces of
biology over which you had no control
interacting with environment over which
you had no control there's no place in
there to put in the sense of Free Will
of a sense of there's a me that's
independent of all of that biological
and environmental history okay so give
me an example of a time where you acted
against your
nature uh when my daughter was 5 years
old and I was a very serious business
executive and you know she comes into my
uh office at you know 10:00 a.m. in the
morning jumping up and down on a
Saturday saying Papa you know we're
going m said we're going to this place
I'm going to have popcorn and we're
going to have cotton candy and can we
please pass by that ice cream place and
I looked at her and I said and I one of
the determining moments of my life
honestly you know being driven by all of
the conditioning I've had until that
moment I looked at her and I said can we
please be serious for a moment okay I
was busy with my email right and she
burst crying she burst crying to the
point that I literally could see with my
own eyes how my little daughter's heart
art broke and and I and that moment
maybe it's part of my conditioning again
maybe it was determined but that moment
flipped me upside down changed my life I
remember I closed my door and I started
crying and I said I never want to be
that person again and I I started to act
against my nature right in a
very you know um attentive way a very
you know this a decision that I made to
change right so I I agree agree with you
that all of my life was leading me to
that moment but my daughter's action
changed my behavior does that count as
no free will I I I I want to tell myself
I I made a choice to not break my
daughter's heart
again which
is heartbreaking heing that story of the
the the the pain that we can cause
inadvertently by how much our own
hungers Drive us
yeah but no that's completely compatible
with how nonetheless there was no free
will there for a very simple reason
there's lots of other people who would
have been sitting there other Silicon
Valley overachievers who having the
exact same experience would have said
I'm not kidding I need to get some work
done go go ask your mother and you would
sit there afterward and say I'm trying I
I told my partner that I need to get
some work done why can't they sort of
this or that or why oh my God this this
child yeah yeah I guess I was like that
but so irritating and and they would
have a completely different response how
did you become the sort of person where
that would be one of the moments that
would define your life it was not by
chance because a zillion other people
could have been in that exact same
moment and May maybe they would have
just gone back to work or maybe they
would have felt badly for a few minutes
or maybe how did you become the sort of
person where that was a transformational
moment in your life that was not by
chance you know two people go to see a
movie some inspirational movie and one
of them comes out of there changed by
The Experience they come out and they
choose to do something different they
say oh my God I'm going to devote the
rest of my life to this like good cause
I'm going to go give away all my money
to Doctors Without Borders and somebody
else comes in and sees the exact same
