world is designed because of our our
connection to those kinds of magnifiers
that are playing to our
weaknesses oh are weaknesses that
sometimes have the potential to bring
out wonderful things in us but are
weaknesses that very readily can do
exactly the opposite and you know you
you you mentioned the word before
tribalism which is such an apt
appropriate world for making sense of so
much of what we're about um as a primate
as a ape as a human thing and often
because of how complex we are um the
signals we're building ourselves around
as to who counts is an Us and Them is
remarkably arbitrary I me this you can
look okay here's two people one of them
is wearing a big cowboy hat and the
other one is wearing a
sar and merely by looking at that you
can tell one of them thinks that cows
are good for eating and one of them
think that cows are good for worshiping
yeah you can tell which one or you look
at two men and merely by the type of hat
they're wearing you can tell who they
think should be able to control access
to the Wailing Wall and the Temple mount
in Jerusalem whether it should be
someone Muslim or someone Jew just by
the hat that just by the way they trim
their beard like whoa we're doing some
very interesting stuff there in terms of
how we could signal to Strang
wow I've never met that person before
but I know I'm willing to kill for them
or I'm willing to die for them because
they've got the same ideology or
Theology and I can tell just by one
because they look like they've got the
same they they don't even know that they
do yeah exactly because you can go on
that showing how abstract of wow we're a
species that's willing to kill over the
color of a flag
like whose flag are you waving what gang
are you wearing the T-shirt colors of
what you know any of those things and
that is a very complicated species
that's going on there and it is very
very very hard to sit somebody down and
say hey you're you're willing to kill
that person because of their ideology or
theology or all of that but you want to
know something amazing if you happen to
have been born there
you would think like one of them you
would be willing to kill one of your
folks now you'd be a different per it is
totally arbitrary that you have these
beliefs because you would be a
completely different and You' really
think and no no no but this is what
makes sense to me people have a very
very hard time understanding just how
arbitrary their hatreds and their loves
and their
loyalties their obediences and their
things of that sort how arbitrary it is
and yet we feel it our brains process it
with an intensity that it's unimaginable
to us that he you could easily have been
a very different person you didn't pick
that womb that you spent nine months in
you didn't pick that mother you didn't
pick that culture you were born in and
you would have been a very different
person and the thing you were willing to
kill for a die for now would be
incomprehensible to the same you if
things had gone a little bit differently
for you yeah I I want to I want to come
to determinism but uh but I I'd like to
keep that a minute more be because I
think that's a very interesting part of
the conversation uh you mentioned uh you
know cortisol and all of how how those
hormones work on us and and I and I
heard you speak of dopamine once in a
way that was so eye openening once again
you know dopamine being the the reward
hormone uh and uh and uh you know the
idea that we we we chase that reward but
that dopamine is not actually triggered
upon the reward would you would you so
kindly explain that I thought that was
so eye
openening it's eye openening and it
explains so much of the misery on this
