movie and they're Changed by it they
come out and they choose to do something
different they say oh my God that was
the most emotionally manipulative movie
I've ever seen in my life I hated that
movie I am going to go and demand to get
my money back right now whoa same movie
same moments and because life had made
them into different people who experence
that moment in that way and it is not by
chance that even amid all the ways in
which you were viewing the world as a
very different place up to that moment
that that moment how did you become the
sort of person so that moment was a
moment for you because it wouldn't have
been for lots of other people so I I'm
I'm with you on that I mean remember my
my the scientific mind of of the the
half of me we will know that very well
in physics right so in physics in
classical physics we always assume that
if we knew every the location of every
particle in the universe and its
momentum and its speed and its you know
mass and so on and so forth we can
determine the next moment of the
universe with high accuracy right
everything is just following the laws of
physics basically those particles some
of them are in my uh eyeballs and some
of them are in a tree but you know we
know that the eyeball is going to hit
the tree it's you know it's very clear
having said that there are those
moments where something changes and and
I I'm asking the question because it
relates to the bigger picture of our
world but but let's stay at the micro
level first you know because are we
telling people look you are who you are
there's absolutely no no way you can
influence that so if you're a depressive
you're going to end end up being
depressed the whole rest of your life if
you're you know a a as a person who has
accepted the stress in their life you're
going to be stressed for the rest of
your life where where is our agency in
changing our own
life well we don't have it but what we
have is a capacity to act upon our
knowledge you've got somebody who's
paying attention to this podcast and
hearing that incredibly moving story of
yours and that may trigger their moment
that may cause them to sit there and say
oh my God I once had a moment like that
where a loved one and I didn't do that I
just got irritated and turned away
and you by telling that story could have
caused that moment in someone else let's
turn That Into neurobiology You by
telling that story you by having become
the person you are so that in that
moment you told that story you by do
changed the brain of somebody
else they didn't show free will that
changed and because we're a species that
can have a meta level of knowledge about
it when they think about that and when
they're transformed by this but tonight
when they go to bed they're thinking you
know that's great but maybe I really
shouldn't quit my job and devote the
rest of my life to this they have now
figured out let me think again about how
I
felt when I heard that story let me pull
up some other examples in my mind of
things where I could now have the same
emotional response let me go read a book
tomorrow that will reaffirm that in me
even more so how did you become the sort
of person who would have a respect for
let me reflect on what happened to me
today how would you become the sort of
person who would have respect for and a
capacity for going out and getting more
experiences now that will reaffirm that
yeah it is it's so interesting when you
because I I I sort of get it in my
scientific mind I'm just not able to put
it in word it's that every single
Collision of two particles in physics
will trigger a slightly different
trajectory that you can capitalize on
right and and basically reconfigure your
mind in the case of neuro Neuroscience
you can you can take that one moment and
